Lawmakers in Vermont, a place long steeped in hunting culture, on Friday approved a sweeping package of new gun restrictions, making the state all but certain to join Florida in passing a raft of new gun control measures after a teenage gunman killed 17 people last month at a high school in Parkland, Fla.
Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, has vowed to sign the measure. It represents a remarkable departure from the state’s existing gun laws, which are some of the weakest in the country — and an about-face for Mr. Scott, who decided to consider new gun control measures only after a teenager was accused of plotting a school shooting in Vermont in the days after the violence in Parkland.
“No state is immune to the risk of extreme violence,” Mr. Scott said in a statement on Friday, adding, “If we are at a point when our kids are afraid to go to school and parents are afraid to put their kids on a bus, who are we?”
The bill, which passed the Senate, 17 to 13, on Friday after clearing the House earlier in the week, would raise the minimum age to purchase a gun to 21 and ban bump stocks, which are devices that allow semiautomatic rifles to fire more rapidly. It also contains restrictions that go beyond those in the measure signed in Florida, like an expansion of background checks and a limit on the capacity of magazines that can be sold or possessed in the state.
The passage of the bill is likely to be hailed as a victory by activists pushing for tighter gun laws around the nation after the Parkland shootings. It comes less than a week after hundreds of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in protest of mass shootings and gun violence — including 2,500 who squeezed onto the steps of the Capitol in Montpelier.
“I think the message that most members of the Legislature — not all — took is that public opinion is changing in Vermont,” said Eric Davis, an emeritus professor of political science at Middlebury College.
Madison Knoop, a college freshman who organized last weekend’s march in Montpelier, called the bill’s advancement “such a good first start.”
The day after the Parkland shooting, Mr. Scott, a moderate Republican who has kept his distance from President Trump, said he saw no need for new gun laws — a position in line with years of precedent in Vermont, a rural state with a committed population of hunters.
Mr. Scott shifted his stance a day later, after a teenager was arrested and accused of planning a school shooting in Fair Haven, Vt. “Everything should be on the table at this point,” Mr. Scott said.
Lawmakers are expected to approve two more gun control measures next week. One would allow law enforcement officers to remove guns from people considered at risk of harming themselves or others, and the other would allow firearms to be taken from people arrested or cited for domestic assault.
Some Democrats joined Republicans in opposing the measures that advanced on Friday. State Senator Dick Sears Jr., a Democrat, expressed deep unease with the ban on high-capacity magazines, which had been included in the House bill.
And State Senator John Rodgers, a Democrat representing a rural stretch of northern Vermont, mourned a change in the state’s culture before he voted against the bill.
“I think maybe if we pass this bill, maybe it is over, maybe the Vermont I grew up with is over, and it’s changed,” Mr. Rodgers said, according to Vermont Public Radio.
On Saturday afternoon, Recoil magazine and Magpul Industries, which makes firearms accessories, were planning to distribute free 30-round magazines at the State House to show their disdain for the expected law. Magazines of that size that are in residents’ possession before the ban goes into effect would not be subject to the law.
Evan Hughes, vice president of the Vermont Federation of Sportsmen’s Clubs, which was opposed to the legislation, said he would be among the crowd on Saturday.
“Our legislators,” he said, “have drastically underestimated the response from the gun-owning community.”
New Jersey already has gun laws that are widely considered to be among the toughest in the country. One prominent national group that promotes stricter legislation has graded New Jersey as A-minus on its scorecard of gun laws, ranking it second among states, while the National Rifle Association has lamented that “Trenton’s appetite for gun control is insatiable.”
Still, the state’s gun laws are poised to become even more stringent. Lawmakers have put forward a package of bills that would, among other things, limit the magazine capacity of guns, ban ammunition capable of penetrating body armor and require residents to demonstrate a “justifiable need” for a permit to carry a gun.
Supporters say that their efforts have been invigorated by the demonstrations in Washington and across the country over the weekend to decry gun violence, which were motivated by the deadly mass shooting last month at a Florida high school. Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald, who supports the legislation, described the response in New Jersey as evidence that “government is listening.”
“There’s a movement that’s afoot,” Mr. Greenwald, a Democrat from Voorhees, said in an interview. “It really is, enough is enough.”
On Monday, the bills were approved the Democratic-controlled State Assembly. They await a vote in the Senate, where Democrats also hold a majority, and the governor, Philip D. Murphy, also a Democrat, has indicated his support.
New Jersey was ranked behind only California in having the most stringent gun restrictions by the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named for Gabrielle Giffords, the former congresswoman who was gravely injured by gunfire in 2011 and survived. New York and Connecticut have similarly strong gun laws. Florida, which had been considered far less restrictive, responded to the shooting last month by passing some of its first gun-control measures in two decades, including raising the minimum age to buy a firearm to 21, banning bump stocks and allowing school employees to be armed.
Already in New Jersey, permits are required for the purchase of any handgun. Assault weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines have been banned, and the state prohibits people with misdemeanor domestic violence convictions or people limited by protective orders from buying or possessing a firearm.
The proposed measures, consisting of a half-dozen separate bills, would limit magazine capacity to 10 rounds and require background checks for private gun sales. The legislation would also allow for extreme risk protective orders meant to prevent people deemed to pose a significant danger from owning or buying a firearm, and it would expand the requirements of mental health providers and other medical workers to report patients to law enforcement if they are believed to pose a threat to themselves or others.
The legislation would also codify in state law the requirement of “justifiable need,” which means that an applicant would have to show that they had been subjected to attacks or threatened — “something beyond a generalized desire to have a gun in public for self-defense,” according to Allison Anderman, the managing attorney at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
The measures have faced considerable opposition from gun-rights organizations, who protested in Trenton on Monday as the Assembly voted on the legislation. “We think they’re misguided and they won’t make anybody safer,” said Scott Bach, the executive director of the Association of New Jersey Rifle and Pistol Clubs.
Mr. Bach argued that the legislation was an incursion on the Second Amendment rights of gun owners. The limits on magazine capacity would turn people who own weapons with larger capacities “into criminals with the stroke of a pen.”
He said his organization and others vowed to fight the laws in court. He viewed the effort as a reflection of lawmakers’ hostility over guns and said the proposed restrictions were part of “a constant and never-ending call for more, regardless of the facts, regardless of the circumstances.”
“Enough already,” Mr. Bach said. “Enough. Stop targeting honest citizens and instead severely punish criminals. New Jersey doesn’t get that and we think it’s because New Jersey doesn’t want to get that.”
The legislation was revived after the former governor, Chris Christie, a Republican, vetoed numerous gun control measures while he was in office, including one that would have limited magazine capacity and regulations to make it more difficult to obtain a concealed carry permit. He supported loosening the state’s restrictions, calling them “overly burdensome.”
But supporters of tougher restrictions said the measures gained new traction in recent months, bolstered by the surge in attention prompted by recent episodes of mass violence and the election of Mr. Murphy, who had campaigned on tougher gun restrictions. Mr. Murphy had also been endorsed during the campaign by Ms. Giffords.
Mr. Murphy has supported the measures in the Legislature, which he described as “common sense gun measures to protect our communities and families.”
“The people of New Jersey have demanded we act,” Mr. Murphy said in a statement on Monday, “and we must.”
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher
As hundreds of thousands of demonstrators prepared to march in Washington in response to the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., students on the South Side of Chicago felt sympathy, but also frustration.
Why hadn’t the gun violence in their community earned the nation’s outrage?
On today’s episode:
• Sameen Amin, a senior video producer at The New York Times.
Background coverage: 
• Video: Ke’Shon Newman’s brother was shot and killed on the South Side of Chicago, where gun violence is a daily threat. He decided to join the march in Washington with high school students from Parkland, Fla.
• For some students who joined protests against gun violence over the weekend, bloodshed doesn’t come in isolated bursts of mass slaughter, it’s a constant urban reality.
• Highlights from the March for Our Lives: Students protesting guns say “enough is enough.”
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.
From your mobile device:
You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.
Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)
From a desktop or laptop:
Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.
On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:
Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
On Google Home:
You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
Remington, the storied gun maker that began turning out flintlock rifles when there were only 19 states in the Union, has filed for bankruptcy reorganization amid years of slumping sales and legal and financial pressure over the Sandy Hook school massacre.
In papers filed Sunday in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware, Remington outlined a plan to turn over control to its creditors and continue operating with up to $100 million from lenders. It remains unclear what will happen to its 3,500 or so employees as it tries to put its finances in order.
Remington, whose roots go back to 1816, when the Western frontier beckoned, saw its debts mount with the election of President Donald Trump, who has called himself a "true friend" of the National Rifle Association but whose victory ended years of panic-buying by people afraid a Democrat in the White House would crack down on guns.
In 2017, firearm background checks, a good barometer of sales, declined faster than in any year since 1998, when the FBI first began compiling such data.
The Madison, North Carolina, company's production of one of the best-known weapons in the world, the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle, has also proved problematic. The young man who killed 20 first-graders and six educators in the Sandy Hook shooting in Connecticut in 2012 used a Bushmaster.
An AR-15-style weapon made by a different manufacturer, Smith & Wesson, was used last month in the rampage at a Parkland, Florida, high school that left 17 people dead. That attack has led to huge protests around the country and a new student-led movement to tighten gun laws.
Remington was sued by victims' families after the Sandy Hook tragedy. That lawsuit was dismissed because of broad immunity granted to the gun industry, but the Connecticut Supreme Court is weighing whether to reinstate it.
Some investors decided after Sandy Hook that they wanted nothing to do with the Remington. Cerberus Capital Management, the private equity firm that acquired Remington in 2007 as gun sales began to boom, tried to sell it less than a week after the shooting. There were no takers.
In filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, Remington Outdoor Co. said it would give holders of a $550 million loan to the company an 82.5 percent stake. Other creditors would get the rest.
The industry has been hurt by another trend: A large percentage of guns in the U.S. are owned by an increasingly small group of people.
A recent study by Harvard University and Northeastern University found that the number of privately owned guns in America grew by more than 70 million — to approximately 265 million — between 1994 and 2015. But half of those guns are owned by only 3 percent of the population. That small base of what are sometimes referred to as "super-owners" has made the industry more unstable.
In 2015, Colt Holdings Co., another storied gun maker, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Likewise, profits at Sturm, Ruger & Co. are under pressure, and its stock is down 18 percent this year.
Some of Wall Street's heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns.
BlackRock — a major shareholder in Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands and Vista Outdoor Brands — announced about a week after the Parkland shooting that it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy.
The firm is also looking into creating new investment funds that exclude gun makers and retailers.
MONTPELIER, Vt. —  Gun rights supporters protesting gun restriction legislation have gathered outside the Vermont Statehouse to urge the governor not to sign the bill.
Police estimate hundreds of protesters turned out Saturday to show their opposition a day after the Vermont legislature passed the gun restrictions package.
Protesters were giving away 1,200 30-round magazines. The legislation would ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks, in addition to raising the legal age. It also would expand background checks for private gun sales.
People who own high-capacity magazines before the law takes effect can keep them.
Gun rights advocates also were accepting donations for a fund to challenge the Vermont legislation.
Republican Gov. Phil Scott is expected to sign the bill.
____
This story has been corrected to show the number of magazines is 1,200, not 400.
(Reuters) - Vermont lawmakers gave final legislative approval on Friday to a bill that raises the legal age for buying firearms and expands background checks, becoming the latest state poised to tighten gun restrictions after last month's Florida school massacre.
The Democrat-controlled state Senate approved the measure, S55, in a 17-13 vote, according to the online legislative record. The bill passed the state House of Representatives this week.
The measure now goes to Republican Governor Phil Scott, who has shifted his stance and voiced support for some gun controls after the arrest in February of a Vermont teenager accused of threatening to shoot up a high school. The incident came two days after a former student killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14.
Scott's support for gun controls marked a sharp switch for a governor with a 93 percent approval rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA) gun rights advocacy group in an otherwise politically liberal state with a reputation as a pro-gun stronghold.
Vermont, a largely rural New England state with a passion for hunting, is one of two dozen states where efforts to curb gun violence have gained momentum since the Feb. 14 shooting rampage that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.
The Vermont bill raises the age for gun purchases to 21 and expands background checks for private gun sales. It also bans magazines of more than 10 rounds for long guns and 15 rounds for pistols as well as rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.
Vermont Public Radio reported that the Senate would take up two more gun-related measures next week. Both are aimed at removing guns from homes in cases of domestic violence or when someone is at risk of imminent harm from firearms, it said.
Gun control advocates say the turnaround in Vermont and other states has been propelled in part by the groundswell of student-led lobbying efforts and protests calling for firearms restrictions.
After the Parkland massacre, Florida's Republican-controlled legislature swiftly passed a bill that raised the age requirement and set a three-day waiting period for gun purchases and allowed the arming of some school personnel. The measure was  signed into law by another Republican with strong NRA credentials, Governor Rick Scott.
(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Susan Thomas)
On Saturday afternoon, as hundreds of thousands of people joined the March for Our Lives around the nation, I was on the phone with Michael Corbat, chief executive of Citigroup.
Mr. Corbat had taken the remarkable step on Thursday of authorizing a new set of rules to restrict gun sales by Citi’s clients, the first time a Wall Street bank had used its position to influence the gun control debate.
Five weeks earlier, a gunman’s attack at a high school in Parkland, Fla., had left 17 dead. Soon afterward, I wrote a column challenging the business world to “effectively set new rules for the sales of guns in America,” given Washington’s intransigence.
Other companies soon acted — BlackRock and Dick’s Sporting Goods, among them — but Citi’s decision has the potential to serve as a template for others in the finance industry. Citi said it would require retailers to place restrictions on the sale of guns to anyone under the age of 21, to stop selling bump stocks and high-capacity magazines and to perform background checks. Otherwise, it would not do business with them.
Mr. Corbat, a gun owner who said the decision had not been made lightly, found the response to the bank’s move instructive.
“I would say from our employees, it has been overwhelmingly to virtually unanimously positive,” he told me. “I would say lots of positives from customers and clients. And then, as you know, the gun lobby is a strong lobby. I’ve gotten my share of people who staunchly disagree with us interfering in what they believe to be a constitutional right. And that wasn’t unexpected, and we certainly respect that opinion.”
He added that he had expected to hear from customers who planned to “take their Citi card and put it in a drawer or cut it up” — and that Citi had received such responses.
But ultimately “the positives have significantly outweighed the negatives,” he said. For every negative note, he said, he has gotten many more “saying that ‘I’m moving everything I have to Citi as a response to this.’”
Investors applauded, too. The board of the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, a huge pension fund, issued a statement saying Citigroup was “modeling best practices and demonstrating actionable steps that others can take.”
In the weeks since the Parkland shootings, I’ve had conversations with dozens of chief executives and other leaders from a variety of industries, many reaching out directly about the internal debates they have had. Virtually all the major banks, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America among them, have created formal or informal working groups to consider the issue, as have the big credit card companies, including Visa, Mastercard and American Express.
(Perhaps the bank that’s least receptive to addressing the issue of guns is Wells Fargo, which has said it should be approached through the “political and legislative process.” Wells Fargo is the largest financier in the nation of the gun industry and is the main bank for the National Rifle Association, according to  Bloomberg.)
With the exception of Citi, most financial institutions are still grappling with how to properly carry out a plan that is both enforceable and does not encroach on the rights of its customers.
While Citi’s decision is significant, Mr. Corbat acknowledged that it was intended to be balanced — and he purposely didn’t want it to be too broad. “This isn’t an easy thing to simply take a stance on,” he said, because of various privacy laws and rights.
“There is an important nuance here,” he said. “We didn’t tell our hundred and sixty million card holders in the world how they can use their cards. It’s their money. But what we did say — in terms of the people that Citi is going to do business with, the ones that we’re going to finance and that we’re going to, in essence, put our brands together on — that there needs to be something that makes sense for us and for both sides.”
He said the bank had purposely left some of its policy ambiguous so it could accommodate potential exceptions — for example, to the 21-year-old age limit.
“My inbox lit up with people saying: ‘Dear Sir, I’ve served in the military. Our country gave me a firearm when I was 18, and it was fine for me to go use that in the defense of our country,’” Mr. Corbat said.
“We didn’t use the word prohibit,” he added. “We used the word restriction. And we think that part of this should evolve.”
So if a person “had military training or you’ve had hunter safety training,” Mr. Corbat said, he could see an allowance for those individuals, though how that would be administered remains unclear.
The focus on raising the age of gun buyers to 21 is not random: Individuals ages 18 to 20 commit homicides using guns at a rate that’s four times higher than the rate for those over 21, according to Everytown for Gun Safety, using F.B.I. and census data.
While other institutions seem to be waiting to find the perfect solution, Mr. Corbat said, he decided he needed to act. “There’s things you can do today, and there are those things that maybe we have the ability around technology or other things to do in the future,” he said.
Here are two new ideas that the financial community might want to consider. I’ve shared these ideas with many of the biggest financial institutions, and the feedback, with some exceptions, has been quite positive.
One of the biggest complaints that banks and credit card processors have is that it is very difficult for them to know what products a merchant is selling. Banks do not get access to the specifics of each purchase. The only information they get is a Merchant Category Code, known as an M.C.C. Oddly enough, a gun dealer and Modell’s share the same M.C.C.: “sporting goods.” So a bank or processor has no idea if you’re buying a gun or sneakers.
If the credit card companies and banks agreed, they could come up with a series of subcodes that would identify retailers that sold guns under a “best practices” policy — like the policy that Citigroup proposed or the one that Walmart and Dick’s follow — and the ones that don’t. It would add transparency to the process, and it would give banks that issue credit cards the opportunity to decide which retailers they wanted to associate with.
This solution is hardly a panacea. Retailers could try to game it, and it would require some enforcement. But much of that could be accomplished through crowdsourced feedback from customers. The addition of a new level of detail to the M.C.C. might add pressure on gun retailers to voluntarily follow the “best practices” route.
The second technological solution is deceptively simple, but it could change the way guns are sold at gun shows, where in some states background checks are not required. Many of the sales at gun shows are done through services like Venmo and Square — both of which refuse to knowingly process the firearm sales under their terms of service.
Given that gun shows are public events with specific addresses and times, payment services could use GPS coordinates to electronically geo-fence the event — so that their services limit transactions to users over 21 or require additional information for sales to be processed from that location.
In the world of banking, there is an abbreviation that is considered sacrosanct: K.Y.C., or Know Your Customer. It seems only reasonable for the financial industry, especially when it comes to guns, to do more to know its customer.
NEWARK, N.J. —  Federal authorities will prosecute the drug and gun charges that rapper Juelz Santana faces following an incident at Newark Liberty International Airport earlier this month.
Santana had faced both state and federal charges in the matter. But the state charges were dismissed this week, as Essex County prosecutors said they would defer to federal authorities.
Santana had pleaded not guilty to state charges. He remains jailed pending further hearings.
Authorities say security personnel found a loaded .38-caliber handgun and oxycodone pills Santana didn't have a prescription for in a carry-on bag containing his identification.
They say he fled the area, leaving two bags behind. He turned himself in three days later.
The 36-year-old New York City-born rapper lives in Totowa, New Jersey. His real name is LaRon James.
JANESVILLE, Wis. —  Some Wisconsin students who took their demonstration against gun violence on the road reached their destination Wednesday — House Speaker Paul Ryan's home turf.
About 50 students set out Sunday from Madison on their "50 Miles More" march. They reached their destination in Janesville and demonstrated in a park for stricter gun laws. Ryan, a Republican who has opposed gun restrictions, is in the Czech Republic on an official visit and was not there when the marchers arrived.
The march came more than a month after a gunman killed 17 students and staff members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.
Bea Windorski said she marched because gun violence "affects every single American, especially the students of America. Enough is enough."
The students carried signs reading "No more silence! End gun violence" and "Books not bullets," and they chanted "Hey hey, ho ho, the NRA has got to go."
One supporter took the podium during the demonstration and broke down in tears.
"I am standing here so my voice is heard. We are all standing here so our voices will be heard. And if Paul Ryan and other politicians refuse, then we will take our voices to the voting booth in November," said Maria Mendoza, a march supporter.
Katie Eder, one of the march organizers, said she kept moving "because despite so many people telling us that ending gun violence is impossible, it's too ambitious, it's too difficult, I believe with every bone in my very sore body that this is the time to do the impossible."
Not all the speakers were students. Pardeep Kaleka, whose father and five others were fatally shot at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, in August 2012, also spoke. He said the students were an answer to his father's prayers that he said as he was dying.
The students said they want a ban on military-style guns and accessories that turn semi-automatic weapons into automatic weapons. They also want a four-day waiting period for all gun purchases, background checks on all gun sales, and the legal age to buy a gun increased to 21.
Adult volunteers walked with the students, who spent the nights in schools along the route.
___
This story has been corrected to show that the last name of a march supporter is Mendoza, not Mandoza.
HOUSTON —  Video released by authorities shows a suburban Houston police officer fatally shooting a driver during a traffic stop after the man ignored requests to stay in his vehicle and drew a handgun, which police said Friday had been reported stolen.
The driver, identified as 44-year-old Marco Antonio Saavedra, had four warrants for his arrest, said Pasadena Police spokesman Vance Mitchell.
After Thursday's shooting, Pasadena police released video from the officer's bodycam and from his vehicle's dashboard camera.
In the video , the officer pulled over Saavedra's white car after the motorist ran a stop sign.
As soon as Saavedra stopped his car, he opened his door and could be heard saying, "What did I do" as he stepped out of his vehicle and stood up.
The officer told Saavedra three times to "stay in the vehicle" and then told him twice to "show me your hands." Saavedra had his right hand behind his back as he stood next to his car.
Saavedra then leaned back into his car before drawing a handgun. The officer fired several times, hitting Saavedra on the left side of his body.
The driver then stumbled around the street before raising his gun a second time. The officer fired several more times, hitting Saavedra, who then fell onto the pavement.
Pasadena Assistant Police Chief Joshua Bruegger told reporters Thursday the shooting appeared justified but the case would be presented to a grand jury.
Mitchell said Friday that Saavedra had arrest warrants on aggravated assault charges and for violating his bond. Court records show Saavedra, from Houston, had been accused of assaulting his wife on at least two occasions.
The Pasadena police officer, whose name was not released, was put on administrative leave for several days. The officer has been with the police department for 13 years, Mitchell said.
___
BALTIMORE —  Imani Holt was just 10 when she saw a neighbor get fatally shot by a triggerman riding a bicycle. The African-American girl from a gritty section of Baltimore was so traumatized by the drug-fueled bloodshed she refused to leave her family's apartment for weeks.
In the eight years since, Holt has seen the chaotic aftermath of two more deadly shootings and has lost seven high school classmates to the daily drip of gun violence.
Like many black teenagers in neighborhoods hobbled by generational poverty, she is scrutinizing the national gun control debate intensely, frustrated because her community feels ignored but also cautiously hopeful that the massacre in Florida may bring about change closer to home.
"I feel really bad that they lost those kids in Florida. But, like, we go through shootings all the time. It's just that our shootings happen day by day. Because it happens on the regular up here, the world says it's really not that important," said the 18-year-old Holt, a junior at Excel Academy, an alternative high school across the street from a cluster of West Baltimore's boarded-up row houses.
Christina Martin, a 17-year-old who lost two schoolmates to gun violence this year at Thurgood Marshall Academy in Washington, noted that the victims in the affluent Parkland community were mostly white and Latino. None were African-American.
"We should have got the same attention in return," said Martin, who is black.
The gun violence toll is unrelenting in parts of Baltimore — a city that reached a grim milestone last year when the per-capita homicide rate rose to 56 killings per 100,000 people. That's the highest rate among the country's 30 biggest cities.
Even as Excel Academy students prepared for last Saturday's March for Our Lives protest, gun violence struck again: A 17-year-old classmate was shot on a street corner, three bullets in the back by an unidentified gunman.
The deaths of seven classmates to gun violence over the span of 15 months have left deep emotional scars. The students at Excel agree that their high school — with a metal detector at the entrance— provides a sense of security. But the toll on their bodies and minds is significant. Nerves are on edge. It can be hard to concentrate.
"It's really scary. You just want to go to sleep, wake up and see the same people you saw yesterday. But it's like: One day you see somebody, the next day they're gone," Holt said.
At the New Hope Baptist Church in New Orleans' Central City neighborhood — an area that has struggled with crime — Pastor Jamaal Weathersby has presided over funeral services for a toddler killed in a shooting and three brothers all shot in the same incident. He worries about the impact that repeated gun violence has on young people.
"There are so many young people who are suffering silently, trying to internalize how their brothers, sisters, uncles, even parents are being gunned down in our streets and I think it's something, no matter how long, eventually I believe it's going to come out in some shape, form or fashion, whether it's depression, keeping up in school," he said.
Parkland's student protesters are well aware that their peers in inner-city districts are dealing with the impact of gun violence daily. Earlier this month, they met with Chicago teens. Before the Washington march on Saturday, a number of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School went to Thurgood Marshall High School to hear from students there.
"We openly recognize that we are privileged individuals and would not have received as much attention if it weren't for the affluence of our city. Because of that, however, we share the stage today and forever with those who have always stared down the barrel of a gun," Parkland student Jaclyn Corin said during a speech Saturday.
Many worry that despite the renewed attention on gun violence and gun laws, little will change. Angel Anderson went to the New Orleans March for Our Lives rally Saturday to support her 13-year-old daughter. Her own son was robbed at gunpoint outside her house in the middle of the day by a gunman who wanted his hover board.
"I just feel like we're on our own," she said.
Others are hopeful that the voices of impassioned young people can push policymakers to do something.
"This gun violence has got to stop somewhere," said Holt, who was among 25 Excel Academy students and staff who joined hundreds of thousands of people Saturday to call for tougher laws against firearms and ammo at Washington's March for Our Lives rally. "This might be the start of real change happening now. Not just for Florida, for us too. For everybody."
___
Santana reported from New Orleans. Associated Press reporter Noreen Nasir in Washington D.C. contributed to this report.
PARKLAND, Fla. —  A man arrested after authorities say he stole mementos from Parkland shooting victims told deputies he took down an anti-gun sign because he's pro-gun.
A Broward Sheriff's deputy says he saw 37-year-old William Kennedy and 40-year-old Kara O'Neil taking items from the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School memorial and putting them in their car Sunday night. Three teddy bears, a trophy, framed poems and American flags were reported taken.
The arrest report says the two also appeared inebriated and a half-empty bottle of vodka was found inside a cooler in the car.
The Sun Sentinel reports they were charged with suspicion of removing or disfiguring a tomb or a monument.
The couple appeared this week in court, where a judge ordered them to stay away from the school.
___
Information from: Sun Sentinel , http://www.sun-sentinel.com/
LOS ANGELES —  A rock musician who survived a terrorist attack in Paris says the Florida school shooting survivors who called for gun control during the March for Our Lives in Washington are "pathetic."
In a series of Instagram posts over the weekend that were later deleted, Eagles of Death Metal frontman Jesse Hughes said the students were "exploiting" the deaths.
Hughes wrote: "As the survivor of a mass shooting I can tell you from first-hand experience that all of you protesting and taking days off from school insult the memory of those who were killed and abuse and insult me and every other lover of liberty by your every action."
The band escaped a 2015 attack in a theater that left 89 dead.
A message seeking comment from the band's agent was not returned.
LOS ANGELES —  Two Southern California police officers are accused of purchasing so-called off-roster firearms that are not available to the general public and illegally reselling the weapons, federal prosecutors said Monday.
A federal grand jury indictment alleges Gardena Police Department officers Carlos Miguel Fernandez, 42, and Edward Yasushiro Arao, 47, conspired with each other and engaged in dealing firearms without a license, the Los Angeles U.S. Attorney's Office announced.
Collectively, the officers are accused of illegally selling approximately 100 firearms — mostly Colt .38-caliber pistols — without a license.
Off-roster' handguns are not available to the general public, but can be legally purchased by law enforcement officers.
The officers have been ordered to appear for arraignment on April 3. Information on their attorneys was not immediately available and the union that represents officers in Gardena did not immediately respond to an email message seeking comment.
Gardena police Chief Edward Medrano said the officers have been placed on administrative leave, and the department has cooperated with investigators.
"We are deeply concerned about the case," Medrano said in a statement. "This type of conduct is inconsistent with our organizational values and the ethics of our profession and will not be tolerated by the Gardena Police Department."
The indictment also names other people who allegedly were involved in "straw purchaser" transactions.
Prosecutors allege Fernandez advertised guns offered by himself, Arao and others on his Instagram account. Arao, who was the CEO of Ronin Tactical Group, a federal firearms licensee, similarly advertised guns on his company's account, according to the indictment.
Both officers also allegedly marketed firearms at gun shows without proper licenses.
If convicted of all charges, Fernandez would face up to 15 years and Arao could be sentenced to as much as 10 years behind bars, prosecutors said.
Gardena is a city of about 58,000 residents in southwestern Los Angeles County and has about 90 police officers.
Earlier this month a police lieutenant in the Los Angeles County city of Pasadena was arrested on similar charges. Lt. Vasken Gourdikian was charged with illegally selling more than 100 firearms between March 2014 and February 2017.
Gourdikian is accused of using his status as a police officer to buy guns that weren't available to the general public and then reselling the weapons. He's also accused of possessing an unregistered gun and making false statements on federal firearms forms.
MONTPELIER, Vt. —  A package of gun restrictions is on track to become law in Vermont after the state Senate on Friday approved raising the legal age for gun purchases, expanding background checks for private gun sales and banning high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.
The measure, which the House approved this week and Republican Gov. Phil Scott has said he will sign, reflects a remarkable turnaround for a state that has long opposed gun control measures.
Scott acknowledged that many Vermonters would be disappointed by the vote and by his support for provisions that he opposed as recently as two months ago.
"I share it. I know why they are disappointed," Scott said. "But I think at the end of the day, they'll soon learn that what we have proposed, what's being passed at this time, doesn't intrude upon the Second Amendment. It doesn't take away guns, and I believe that we will get accustomed to the new normal, which is trying to address this underlying violence that we are seeing across the nation."
The turning point in this state came one day after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people: A Vermont teenager was arrested on charges he was planning a shooting at the Fair Haven Union High School, which he once attended. Vermont police said tragedy was averted only because a friend of the teenager alerted authorities.
In one day, Scott, who had previously said he did not favor any gun restrictions, changed his mind and urged lawmakers to act.
About 2,500 students and supporters rallied in front of the Vermont Statehouse last weekend as part of the national "March for our Lives" movement. But for the past several weeks, gun-rights supporters, many wearing hunter orange vests or hats, have filled the halls of the Statehouse showing their opposition to gun restrictions.
The 17-13 Senate vote on Friday came after an emotional debate in which lawmakers from the largely rural state spoke of the centuries-old traditions that allow people who live far from the nearest police station to keep weapons as a means of self-defense. Others countered that the modern reality of mass shootings demanded change.
Democratic Sen. John Rodgers, of Glover, an area known as Vermont's Northeast Kingdom, argued for a version of the bill with fewer restrictions on guns.
"The soil of the Kingdom is in my blood and a fair amount of my blood is in that soil," he said. "And because of the way I grew up, I feel dedicated to protecting that area."
But Democratic and Progressive Sen. Philip Baruth, from Burlington, said the violence and mass shootings require change.
"Our attitudes are changing," he said. "And they are changing for a very, very good reason."
MADISON, Wis. —  Some Wisconsin students are taking the momentum of weekend demonstrations against gun violence on the road — straight to House Speaker Paul Ryan's district.
About 40 students launched a "50 Miles More" march from Madison on Sunday. They planned to make it to Janesville, Ryan's home turf, on Wednesday for a rally.
As the students trekked through rural Wisconsin on Monday, organizer Brendan Fardella said they were determined to keep people passionate about their issue.
"We want to keep it going, we want to keep it in the news cycle, keep people empowered and passionate for as long as we can until there's common sense gun reform or until we get to November and all of these politicians are up for re-election and we vote them out if they don't do anything," Fardella said.
Law enforcement escorted the students, who chanted things like "Hey, hey NRA, how many kids did you kill today?" and carried signs like "Protect kids, not guns."
The students said they want a ban on military style weapons, a ban on accessories to turn semi-automatic weapons into automatic weapons, a four-day waiting period on all gun purchases, background checks on all gun sales and raising the legal purchasing age on guns to 21.
Adult volunteers were walking with students during the day. The group planned to spend the nights in schools along the route.
"The support we've been getting from people has been so amazing that it makes me want to keep going," Tatiana Washington, a student from Milwaukee, said.
"I do have a bit of blisters on my feet but other than that I'm good," Washington said. "I like it."
MONTPELIER, Vt. —  Legislation that would make it easier to take guns from suicidal people and perpetrators of domestic violence could receive final approval from the Vermont Legislature this week and Gov. Phil Scott supports the proposals, officials said Monday.
Democratic Sen. Richard Sears, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Monday he felt the separate pieces of legislation could reach Scott's desk by the end of the week. House Judiciary Chairman Maxine Grad, also a Democrat, said she expected the legislation would pass, but she didn't know if the bills could reach the governor's desk so quickly.
Vermont lawmakers appear to be on the verge of passing the most significant changes to the state's gun laws in years.
"It is a big deal," said Grad, who has been working with Sears so the two committees can iron out the differences between the different pieces of legislation.
"I think the bills that we have been passing really create a balance in terms of maximizing public safety and preventing gun deaths and gun violence while supporting and maintaining Vermont traditions," she said.
Grad and Sears made the comments a day before the Vermont House of Representatives is expected to give final approval to a separate piece of legislation that would raise the legal age for gun purchases, expand background checks and ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as "bump stocks." The legislation, which was given preliminary approval on Friday, will need to be reconciled with a Senate version passed earlier this month before it could become law.
It's unclear how long it would take the House and Senate to reconcile the competing versions. Sears said his first choice would be to appoint a House and Senate conference committee to iron out the differences. Grad said it's up to the Senate to deal with the legislation passed by the House.
The push for gun control legislation came after Vermont police broke up what they said was a plot by a Poultney teenager to shoot up the Fair Haven Union High School. He was arrested the day after the Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school that killed 17.
In the bill aimed at taking guns from suicidal people, police would be able to seize firearms with a judge's order. The other proposal would allow police to remove guns in cases of possible domestic violence while allowing a quick hearing to justify the seizure.
A spokeswoman for Scott said he supports the two pieces of legislation that are expected to receive final approval as "commonsense reforms that keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them."
Grad said that once these pieces of legislation are finished the Legislature is considering a number of other proposals to enhance school safety.
Sears said that in a five-year period, 90 percent of Vermont gun deaths were due to suicides and half of the state's homicides are incidents of domestic violence, which in many cases are carried out with firearms.
"I think both bills deal with what are Vermont's real gun-related problems," Sears said.
___
This story has been corrected to show House legislation to expand background checks needs to be reconciled with a version that has passed in the Senate.
TRENTON, N.J. —  New Jersey's Democrat-led Assembly on Monday passed a half-dozen bills aimed at strengthening the state's already-strict gun laws, including a measure to permit the seizure of weapons upon a court order.
The legislation comes just days after tens of thousands of students marched across the country to call for tightening gun laws and the same day as Second Amendment advocates in Trenton rallied against the legislation.
The bill's sponsors cast the measures as part of an effort to keep New Jersey's firearms laws among the most stringent in the country. The legislation was introduced before the fatal Florida high school shooting in February that left 17 people dead, but began to move forward after that tragedy.
"New Jersey's gun safety laws are among the strongest in the nation and we must keep them that way," Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald said.
The legislation also drew an estimated 2,000 people who opposed the bills to the War Memorial in Trenton, according to a state police estimate. Many wore National Rifle Association hats and carried signs that read" NRA Stand and Fight."
"We have to fight for our rights, plain and simple," said Rocky McGuigan, 54, of Mount Laurel, New Jersey, who attended the event with his dog, KC. "Our forefathers did. We have to still do it today unfortunately."
Not all the legislation divided lawmakers along partisan lines. One bill to ban armor-piercing bullets, which are already prohibited, passed with zero no votes and Democratic and Republican support after the sponsor explained the state attorney general was seeking the measure to better line up with federal standards.
But the other measures drew opposition from Republicans. Second Amendment advocates raised concerns about a measure that would allow guns to be seized upon a court order after a health professional reports someone poses a serious threat to themselves or others.
Republican Assemblyman Michael Patrick Carroll called the measure "punitive" in nature.
Another measure bars people who pose a "significant danger" from possessing or purchasing firearms under a new class of protective order.
Another bill lowered the limit for magazine rounds from 15 to 10, with an exception for a popular .22-caliber firearm.
Other legislation required background checks for private gun sales. A sixth bill would require residents to show a "justifiable need" to get a carry permit.
The bills now go to the Democrat-led Senate, where President Steve Sweeney says the Senate will be passing the bills as well.
Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy said he supports the bills.
"The people of New Jersey have demanded we act, and we must," he said.
A New York police officer was arraigned on Tuesday on perjury charges after prosecutors said he repeatedly lied about how the police found a gun in a Brooklyn apartment.
The officer, Joseph Moloney, 27, is accused of providing several false stories, under oath, about how the police discovered a gun in an apartment in the Red Hook Houses complex in South Brooklyn in 2016. Officer Moloney initially claimed that he had found the gun when it was another officer — a sergeant — who had discovered it, prosecutors said. Ultimately, he came clean, but that did not help him. Prosecutors charged him in a 24-count indictment that includes perjury in the first degree and official misconduct.
He pleaded not guilty Tuesday to the charges before Justice Danny K. Chun in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. Officer Moloney’s lawyer, John Tynan, declined to comment on the charges.
“Our police officers are expected to be truthful and honest at all times because people’s fates and the integrity of the justice system depend on that,” said Eric Gonzalez, the Brooklyn district attorney. “We allege that the officer in this case failed to do that and instead repeatedly gave false testimony under oath. Such conduct diminishes public trust and is, in fact, criminal. We intend to now hold the defendant accountable.”
Last week, The New York Times published an investigation into police perjury within the New York Police Department that found that false testimony by the police, known as “testilying,” remains a problem. This year, a Queens detective, Kevin Desormeau, has been convicted of perjury and a Brooklyn detective has been charged with fabricating a photo lineup.
Even as Officer Moloney was arraigned, prosecutors offered little explanation about why they believe he lied. They also did not say if they suspect it had been his idea to lie or if he been instructed to lie by superiors. At the time of the gun arrest, Officer Moloney had been a police officer for three years. As contradictions in his account were exposed, Officer Moloney cited his inexperience as the reason for the error, prosecutors said.
The charges against Officer Moloney stem from an arrest he and other officers made on May 6, 2016, in the public housing apartment building where they had been seeking to arrest a man on a warrant for low-level charges. The officers knocked on the door of an apartment and arrested the man when he answered the door, prosecutors said.
Because it was early in the morning, the man was not properly dressed. The officers followed him into a bedroom to allow him to put on clothes. Officer Moloney and a second officer left with the man to process the arrest, prosecutors said, but about 15 minutes later a sergeant who had stayed behind told the officers to come back.
Inside the apartment was an open black box containing a gun as well as a few bags of marijuana, prosecutors said. At that point, the sergeant told Officer Moloney to go get a search warrant. But when Officer Moloney went to the Brooklyn district attorney’s office to apply for the warrant, he claimed that he — not the sergeant — discovered the gun.
He also insinuated that the arrested man had tried to hide the gun.
“As I was assisting Mr. [redacted] to get dressed, Mr. [redacted] kicked a black plastic box under the bed where the baby was sleeping. I then opened the black plastic box and observed a silver pistol inside the box,” Officer Moloney wrote in a search warrant affidavit, according to the indictment.
He repeated this account, with some variations, to a grand jury, and at court proceedings, prosecutors said.
His story came under scrutiny when photographs from the apartment showed that the bed was set on the floor. At that point, Officer Moloney said the suspect had been trying to push the box away from the bed — rather than toward it, prosecutors said.
“When we were getting him dressed we’re noticing he’s pushing the box away from the actual bed and we realize that it’s open a little and we see that there’s also a firearm in the box,” Officer Moloney testified on Feb. 1. in a family court hearing.
Asked about the discrepancy, Officer Moloney said it was an error based on a lack of experience. It was, he said in Supreme Court, a “mistake on my part, being my first search warrant that I’d sworn out alone, and just a rookie mistake.”
But in July 2017 Officer Moloney admitted that he had not been the one to open the black box, prosecutors said. He also said that he did not observe the moment that the box was being opened, prosecutors said.
“I want to come clean to you,” he told officials, according to the indictment. “I did not open the black plastic box. I did not see the box being opened by someone else. I wasn’t in the room.”
Based on this, prosecutors dismissed the gun charges against the man, whom prosecutors did not identify. The Brooklyn district attorney’s office referred the matter to the Police Department’s Internal Affairs Bureau, which led to perjury charges being filed against Officer Moloney.
LOS ANGELES — John Weber was rummaging through old boxes the other day, looking for memories, when he found a bunch of old baseball and flag football trophies. He has kept other things, too, like a neatly pressed R.O.T.C. uniform, a reminder that he once hoped to steer his son, Anthony, to the Army and away from the streets.
“It’s all I’ve got left,” he said.
On Super Bowl Sunday, after rooting for the Patriots against the Eagles, Anthony Weber left a friend’s apartment to go for dinner with his girlfriend at The Kickin’ Crab, her favorite restaurant.
Around the same time, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department received a 911 call. A black man with a gun was threatening a motorist.
Soon, Anthony — a mixed race 16-year-old, was dead in a darkened courtyard of a run-down apartment complex, with no gun anywhere around.
Nearly two months later, with questions still unanswered, the spot is a makeshift memorial of candles, balloons, flowers, photographs, and placards from rallies. “Jail killer cops!” reads one. “No gun = no alibi = murder,” reads another.
Long before police shootings and protests in Ferguson, Mo., or Sacramento focused America’s attention on how the police treat black men, Los Angeles was a byword for police brutality and racism. Years of effort after the 1991 beating of Rodney King, the riots that followed, and later, the Rampart police corruption scandal, have succeeded in changing the culture of policing in the city to a great extent. There is less overt racism, many people in Los Angeles say, and police forces have been reshaped to better reflect the city’s diversity.
Yet to Anthony Weber’s family, to the Black Lives Matter activists drawn to the case, and to many residents of South Los Angeles, an area still rife with crime and poverty, his death and its aftermath are signs of how much more needs to change on their streets, and how the police can be too quick to use deadly force against black men.
“We are light-years from where we were, and light-years from where we need to be,” said Connie Rice, a civil rights lawyer who began suing the Los Angeles Police Department in the 1990s, and lately has worked with the department on new approaches to policing.
The neighborhood is not the South Los Angeles of the 1980s and 1990s, when gang wars and the crack epidemic were devastating many lives. Crime has fallen drastically, as it has in many big cities across America. There were more than 1,000 murders in a single year in the city of Los Angeles in the 1990s, but the rate today is less than 300 a year.
Even so, gangs are still ubiquitous, and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department has said that Anthony was involved with them, an allegation that has outraged activists.
“First they kill our bodies, then they kill our characters,” said Melina Abdullah, a professor at California State University, Los Angeles, and a Black Lives Matter organizer.
Anthony’s father said, “In South Central, everyone is associated with gangs — it’s just a part of being able to walk to school.” He said Anthony “associated” with neighborhood gang members but was “not a criminal gang member.”
By Mr. Weber’s own account, Anthony struggled. But his past, Mr. Weber said, was irrelevant to his killing.
Anthony’s mother, Demetra Johnson, said that her son “smoked and had a baby at 16,” but she maintained that “he was not a thug or killer, like they are trying to portray.”
She said she had always counseled her son, whom everyone called A.J., that on the streets, he would be regarded with suspicion by the police, especially if he was hanging out with a group of friends.
The sheriff’s department said that the deputies involved in the case believed Anthony had a gun, and that he had refused to obey an order to halt and had run away. When the deputies chased him, according to the department’s statement, Anthony “turned toward the deputies, and that was when a deputy-involved shooting occurred.”
No gun was found at the scene. The department said it must have been lost in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, possibly taken by a bystander.
“As you can imagine, until you are at one of these scenes, you don’t have an appreciation for just how chaotic they get, how dangerous potentially,” Sheriff Jim McDonnell told  KPCC, a public radio station, about the deputies’ failure to find a gun. “You don’t know which additional threats are in the environment, either,” the sheriff said.
But witnesses and the family’s lawyer, Gregory A. Yates, say the deputies secured the scene immediately, and that no one else had any chance to get close and grab a dropped gun.
Activists and members of Anthony Weber’s family say they have no doubt where things will end up: exoneration for the deputies, the details fading from public memory, and eventually, perhaps after years, a quiet payout to the family from the county.
In Los Angeles, law enforcement officers are rarely held criminally accountable for shootings. The last time a police officer in the city faced criminal charges for a shooting while on duty was in 2000; the shooting was not fatal and the officer pleaded no contest.
The 2014 shooting of Ezell Ford, an unarmed black man, by the Los Angeles Police Department, galvanized the local chapter of Black Lives Matter, but the officers were not charged. Mr. Ford’s family sued the city and received a $1.5 million settlement last year.
An officer involved in another controversial police shooting was cleared this month. The district attorney’s office declined to bring charges against the officer for killing an unarmed homeless man in the Venice neighborhood, even though the police department’s own investigation determined that the shooting was not justified and recommended criminal charges. The city reached a $4 million settlement with the victim’s family. Both the officer and victim were black.
The Venice case is emblematic of the broader frustrations of the Black Lives Matter movement over a lack of progress, despite national attention to the problem. “We’re absolutely frustrated,” Ms. Abdullah said. “I’m in a state of rage.”
Fatal shootings by police officers in the United States have held steady at roughly 1,000 a year over the last three years, according to a tally kept by The Washington Post. But there is no standardized federal database to track police shootings, despite repeated calls after the shooting in Ferguson to create such a system.
The latest incident to stir racial tensions and protests happened in Sacramento, where police officers shot and killed a young black man in his backyard who they thought was waving a gun. It turned out to be a cellphone.
Activists in Los Angeles say police shootings are still distressingly numerous. Last year, officers were involved in 78 shootings in Los Angeles County, down slightly from previous years, according to the Los Angeles district attorney. In New York, by comparison, there were 23 police shootings last year, the lowest total on record.
According to an investigation by KPCC, the public radio station, which pieced together data from a variety of sources, the number of shootings by law enforcement officers in Los Angeles County has remained roughly stable for the past 18 years. In the period from 2010 to 2014, the station found, 24 percent of the fatalities in those shootings were black, though black residents make up just 8 percent of the population.
Changes in police policy have built up “just enough fabric of trust to weather the shooting of a resident without a riot,” Ms. Rice said.
Anthony Weber’s death may not fit neatly into the familiar narrative of racially tinged police violence — of a white cop shooting a black man — but his case does fit the narrative of modern Los Angeles. Areas like South Los Angeles that were once predominantly African-American — and were the epicenter of uprisings against police abuses in 1965 and 1992 — have become increasingly Latino, and increasingly diverse. Anthony had a white father, a black mother and a Latino girlfriend.
Law enforcement in Los Angeles has also become more diverse: White males are now in the minority in both the police and the sheriff’s department, and Latino and black officers are represented on the force in proportions roughly mirroring the population at large.
But greater diversity has not ended longstanding police biases against black men, according to the shooting data as well as the perceptions of activists. “They shot him because he’s black!” was chanted by protesters at the first rally after Anthony Weber was killed.
“The last cop who put a boot in Rodney King’s face was black,” said Steven A. Lerman, a lawyer who represented Mr. King. “It doesn’t seem to be white versus black, but blue versus take-your-pick.”
The sheriff’s department has not disclosed the race or identity of the deputy who shot Anthony.
Sitting in the Weber family’s living room on a recent afternoon, surrounded by photographs of Anthony, were four generations of women. Mattie Johnson, Anthony’s grandmother, moved to Los Angeles in 1964 — a year before the Watts riots — hoping to escape the cruelties of segregation and racism in Birmingham, Ala. She recalled Ku Klux Klan marches and a church bombing there that killed four young black girls.
The women all considered Anthony’s death to be of a piece with the long arc of America’s history of racism.
If things had been different, Anthony Weber might have been the one behind the pulpit at the funeral the other day in South Los Angeles. He loved the music of the church, and he sure loved the spotlight.
“He was just a natural charmer,” said his mother, Demetra. “He wanted attention. Which could make him difficult, too. Trust me, I gave him attention. But he always wanted more.”
At his funeral, a former teacher called him her “wonder boy,” who worked hard to reach age 16. His sister spoke about the unfairness that “he never got the chance to be a man.”
Mixed with the grief and the music of R. Kelly and the O’Jays at the service, there were hints of anger, too.
“We’re having trouble finding out what happened to him,” his father said. “They’re not being transparent.”
Rodney Hilson, speaking from long experience as a pastor in South Los Angeles, said simply, “I’m tired of this.”
Before reading the article: 
Did you attend an anti-gun violence rally on Saturday? If so, what was it like? Did you see news reports of rallies that took place around the United States and in other countries? What do you think about when you look at the images from the protests?
Watch the video above. What is your reaction to what you saw and heard? Do you agree with the idea stated by one of the speakers that only teenagers could have started the movement to end gun violence? Why or why not?
Now read the article, “Students Lead Huge Rallies for Gun Control Across the U.S.,” and answer the following questions: 
1. Roughly how many rallies took place on Saturday? Where are some of the places mentioned?
2. Why does the article suggest that the “political awakening” these events may serve for their participants “may be a rude one?”
3. Who is Naomi Wadler?
4. What does the author mean by the sentence, “Calls like Naomi’s stood in stark contrast to action on Capitol Hill and at the White House in the hours before the rallies?”
5. Who is John Feinblatt? What did he give as the reasons he believes that the student protesters won’t become disillusioned by the “lack of immediate action in Congress?”
6. Where did counterprotests take place? What did speakers at those rallies talk about?
Finally, tell us more about what you think: 
The related article “At Rallies, Students With a Different View of Gun Violence: As Urban Reality” describes the experiences of people who attended marches on Saturday and had “a different idea of the problem” of gun violence: not mass shootings like the one that happened at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School but those shootings that are “a never-ending feature of life” in cities like Baltimore and Chicago.
Read the article and discuss the points raised by the protesters.
WASHINGTON —  A retired U.S. Supreme Court justice on Tuesday called for the repeal of the U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment, which gives Americans the right to keep and bear firearms, and the White House responded by reaffirming its support for the provision.
Former Justice John Paul Stevens, who sat on the country's highest court for 35 years before retiring in 2010, is one of the highest-profile legal figures to join the national debate on school shootings, gun violence and firearms ownership.
The long-running debate flared anew after a gunman killed 17 students and faculty at a Florida high school in February, prompting an upsurge of gun control activism by teenage students, including mass protests nationwide last weekend.
"Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday," Stevens, 97, wrote in an opinion article in the New York Times. "These demonstrations demand our respect."
His repeal proposal goes further than demands by the student demonstrators, who have generally called for measures such as raising the minimum age for purchasing guns from 18 to 21 and requiring more comprehensive background checks for buying firearms.
Asked about Stevens' call for repeal, presidential spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said, "The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment.
"We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals, not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights," she told a news briefing.
Republican President Donald Trump strongly supported the amendment during his 2016 election campaign, but following the Florida shooting has supported some gun control measures such as expanded background checks.
Chris Cox, executive director of the lobbying arm for the National Rifle Association, the leading proponent of gun rights, called the idea of repealing the Second Amendment "radical."
"We will unapologetically continue to fight to protect this fundamental freedom," Cox said.
In his article, Stevens described how the Supreme Court had curbed the Second Amendment's reach during the 20th century and labeled the concern that prompted the amendment - that a national army might pose a threat to the separate states during the United States' infant years - "a relic of the 18th century."
The amendment's text reads: "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."
Stevens wrote that repealing the amendment "would eliminate the only legal rule that protects sellers of firearms in the United States — unlike every other market in the world."
"It would make our schoolchildren safer than they have been since 2008 and honor the memories of the many, indeed far too many, victims of recent gun violence."
Stevens, nominated to the court by Republican President Gerald Ford, had previously called for modifying the Second Amendment.
Changes to the Constitution can be proposed only with a two-thirds vote in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate or by a constitutional convention called by two-thirds of the states, and must be ratified by three-fourths of the 50 states.
The overwhelming majority of amendments have not passed, and only one has been repealed. The 27th Amendment, which concerns lawmakers' pay, is the most recent change to the constitution. It was ratified in 1992, although it was originally proposed in 1789.
(Reporting by Makini Brice; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
ATHENS —  PAOK Salonika President Ivan Savvidis was banned from all soccer stadiums for three years for storming on to the pitch with a gun during a Greek league match, the league said on Thursday as the country faced a possible international ban.
PAOK were also docked three points, ending their title chances.
Savvidis, a Georgia-born businessman and former Russian state Duma deputy, charged on to the pitch with a gun in his belt when a goal for PAOK was disallowed in a match against fellow title contenders AEK Athens on March 11.
The game was interrupted and the incident prompted an immediate suspension of the league by the Greek government as world soccer's governing body FIFA considers action against Greece over repeated crowd trouble and violence in stadiums.
The Hellenic Football Federation said a FIFA monitoring group for Greek football would recommend the suspension of the country based on the current conditions.
"The monitoring group unanimously proposes the immediate suspension of the membership of the Hellenic Football Federation from FIFA," the federation said in a statement after a briefing from the FIFA monitoring committee on Thursday.
FIFA is set to discuss the matter in two months at a council meeting but the federation plans to push through changes rapidly.
"The board of the Hellenic Football Federation expressed the unwavering will to proceed with changes in the entire structure and operation of Greek football on all levels," it said.
The government lifted the ban on Tuesday with Superleague matches set to resume over the weekend.
Savvidis was also fined 100,000 euros (£87,689) and the club, fined an additional 63,000 euros, must play three matches behind closed doors.
PAOK sports director Lubos Michel, a former international referee, was banned for 90 days and fined 15,000 euros after also entering the pitch and complaining to the referee.
The disciplinary committee awarded the game to AEK Athens and stripped two points from PAOK from next season's championship.
PAOK said they would appeal.
"The sanction is harsh and was delivered under the pressure of a coordinated media storm against PAOK," the club said in a statement. "We are proceeding with an appeal and await to be judged on real facts."
FIFA has repeatedly warned Greece to clean up football or risk a possible international ban.
"The word Grexit is no more impossible. Greek football is going to an edge," Herbert Huebel, head of FIFA's monitoring committee for Greek football, said this month.
(Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; editing by Ed Osmond)
Morocco’s official proposal to host the 2026 World Cup highlights the country’s low murder rate and its “very low gun circulation” — a not-too-subtle dig at a rival bid led by the United States, which is campaigning for the tournament amid a roiling national discussion about gun safety.
“Morocco is one of the world’s safest countries,” the Morocco bid declares in the executive summary of its bid, which emphasizes broad concepts like passion and sustainability but conspicuously avoids direct mention of the elephant hiding in plain sight: a minimum price tag of $15.8 billion for roads, railways and at least nine new stadiums.
The specifics of the bid by Morocco’s soccer federation were posted Monday, when FIFA released its official bid book along with the one from a combined North American bid by the federations of the United States, Mexico and Canada.
The North Americans released most of the details of their proposal two weeks ago. That bid, called United 2026, includes projections for record ticket sales (5.8 million) and ticket revenue ($500 million) but also stresses what its leaders believe is one of the most appealing features it is offering to FIFA: 23 stadiums and more than 150 training sites that are already built.
That kind of certainty — a word that appears more than 50 times in the North American bid book — could appeal to FIFA, especially for the 2026 tournament, which will be the first with an expanded 48-team field. The North American bid book included several new details: it proposes holding the final at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, and charging $21 to $323 for group-stage tickets. (Morocco’s ticket prices in the early rounds are in the same range, though the sheer size of North America’s stadiums means its bid can sell many more tickets.)
Morocco’s bid, by contrast, is more speculative. It proposes a compact tournament held in 14 stadiums spread over 12 cities, all within a 550-kilometer (340-mile) radius of the country’s largest city, Casablanca. But nine of the stadiums would have to be built for the tournament, and each of the other five would require tens of millions of dollars in improvements to meet FIFA standards.
Estimates for the costs of the unbuilt stadiums vary: a new 93,000-seat stadium in Casablanca to host the opening match and the final comes with a projected construction cost of about $400 million, while 45,000-seat arenas in Oujda ($47.6 million) and Tetouan ($38.8 million) list improbably small figures for stadiums their size.
Six modular stadiums also are planned, each potentially costing about $150 million. The bid suggests two multibillion-dollar high-speed rail lines and nearly a dozen other road and railway projects — at a cost of additional billions — would be completed in time for the tournament.
The total figure of infrastructure spending that Morocco officials announced this month when they submitted their plan to FIFA — $15.8 billion — does not appear in the executive summary, though the document does note a projected profit for FIFA of $5 billion.
The Moroccan bid mimics many of the talking points that Qatar used in its successful bid for the 2022 tournament: unqualified support from the country’s monarchy as part of a broad national development plan; limited travel for teams, fans and the news media; and extensive use of modular stadium construction. That may not be coincidental: Qatari officials have publicly backed the Moroccan bid, and some of the consultants who masterminded Qatar’s success in the corruption-marred bidding for the 2022 tournament have signed on to push Morocco’s candidacy.
FIFA will begin technical evaluations of both bids in April, when a five-member committee will visit all four countries to assess the stadiums, practice sites and infrastructure they have proposed using for the event.
Each bid will receive a score from the committee, and those reports will be made public, but under the bidding regulations, the committee has the right to exclude any bid if it finds “a material failure” by a bidder to meet minimum requirements.
At a FIFA Council meeting in Colombia earlier this month, African officials, who back Morocco, sought to weaken the committee’s power to exclude bidders before a vote, but FIFA’s leadership — led by the organization’s president, Gianni Infantino — fought off efforts to change the rules. The argument took about an hour before Infantino asked members to vote on the issue, something that the committee rarely does.
A final vote on the 2026 host will be held June 13 in Moscow, one day before the opening match of this summer’s World Cup.
Remington Outdoor, one of the oldest firearm manufacturers in the United States, filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday amid mounting debt and declining sales.
The gun maker had said last month it was nearing a bankruptcy filing, which it made on Sunday in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware. In its Chapter 11 filing, Remington said it had between $100 million and $500 million in debt and would continue to operate while under bankruptcy protection. It estimated that its assets were between $100 million and $500 million.
Remington did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday evening.
The company, which was founded in upstate New York in 1816 but is now based in North Carolina, was acquired in 2007 by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management for $118 million. The firm rolled it up with other gun manufacturers, including the maker of the Bushmaster rifle, into a conglomerate called Freedom Group.
Under Cerberus, Remington’s sales initially boomed as total gun sales in the United States grew. In 2012, nearly 8.6 million guns were made in the United States, up from about 3.3 million in 2002.
After 20 children and six adults were killed in 2012 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., public outrage zeroed in on Remington after the authorities reported that the gunman had used an AR-15-style rifle made by the company. Families of the Sandy Hook victims sued Remington, saying the manufacturer of the military-style assault rifle used by the gunman bears some responsibility for the attack.
Some investors then divested from the company, and Remington borrowed heavily during that time, including to buy out investors who wanted to leave. But the prospect of imminent gun control legislation helped Remington sales surge 36 percent, to $1.3 billion in 2013, according to Moody’s.
The company expected a similar bump in sales if Hillary Clinton had won the presidential election in 2016 because of her possible pursuit of gun control legislation. But in the first nine months of Donald J. Trump’s presidency, Remington’s sales were down 27.5 percent.
Last month, Remington announced that its lenders had agreed to cut its $948 million debt load by $700 million in exchange for an ownership stake in the company.
UPPER DARBY, Pa. —  The Latest on a Taiwanese exchange student accused of threating to shoot up his Pennsylvania high school (all times local):
4:55 p.m.
Police say a Taiwanese exchange student accused of threatening a shooting at his Pennsylvania high school had ammunition in the home where he was staying and researched how to buy weapons.
Upper Darby police say 18-year-old student An Tso Sun threatened to "shoot up" the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School on May 1.
Sun later said he was joking but was charged with making terroristic threats.
Police say a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches, a high-powered crossbow and live ammunition were found in Sun's bedroom in Lansdowne.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said Wednesday his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest. He says his client said he was "Just kidding."
___
12:35 p.m.
Police allege that an exchange student accused of threatening a shooting at his high school had ammunition in the Pennsylvania home where he was staying and also researched how to buy an AK-47.
Upper Darby police alleged Wednesday that 18-year-old Taiwanese exchange student An Tso Sun threatened to "shoot up" the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School on May 1. Sun later said he was joking but was charged with making terroristic threats.
Superintendent Michael Chitwood says a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches, a high-powered crossbow and live ammunition were found in Sun's bedroom in Lansdowne.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting, and many items found were things he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest.
___
This item has been corrected to show Latoison is a defense attorney, not a public defender.
BERLIN —  Hungarian authorities on Wednesday arrested a German suspected of selling arms via an anti-immigrant website called "Migrants' Fright", the Berlin public prosecutor said on Wednesday.
The 34-year-old man ran the website from Hungary to serve German clients from May to November 2016 before it was shut down, the prosecutor's office said.
An internet search showed the website offered "first class and discretely delivered" ammunition and guns such as pistols and Kalashnikovs to clients "without troublesome bureaucratic hurdles or annoying paperwork".
Hungarian authorities raided two sites in Budapest and the city of Barcs on Wednesday, seizing data and other evidence, the prosecutor's office said, adding that the man was suspected of 193 cases of illegal arms sales.
The investigation had been under way since 2016, when German magazine Focus reported that the suspect was operating "Anonymous.Kollektiv", a far-right anti-immigration website that had nearly 2 million followers on Facebook. The page has since been deleted.
German authorities have sought to crack down on attacks against immigrants which have increased since the influx of over a million mostly Muslim migrants beginning in 2015.
There were more than 2,000 attacks against migrants in 2017, ranging from physical assault to serious property damage, the German interior ministry said in February. It was not clear how many of the attacks involved weapons.
(Reporting By Riham Alkousaa; Editing by Andrea Shalal and Robin Pomeroy)
Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:
• So you want to be Deutsche Bank’s next C.E.O...
• Investors are selling tech again.
• Will Wall Street’s top regulator keep going after bad bankers?
• More potential limits on gun sales
• Facebook’s growing political troubles
• Uber’s self-driving travails
Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.
Imagine you are applying to be the C.E.O. of Deutsche Bank now that it’s reportedly seeking a successor to John Cryan, the bank’s current chief.
You survey the bank’s numbers to get a sense of the opportunities and challenges you’d face.
Staring you in the face is the stock price, down nearly 30 percent this year. Ugly, but it could be a good entry point. It gives you time to try out some tough measures aimed at improving Deutsche Bank’s performance. Even if those moves produce near-term losses, the stock may not dive, given how far it’s already fallen.
Then you look at the strength of Deutsche Bank’s capital, as expressed by a regulatory measure called the common equity tier 1 capital ratio. That’s at 14 percent, a solid-looking level, achieved in part by an €8 billion equity raise last year. In theory, you have something to spend on your chosen plans.
But then you realize that Deutsche Bank’s share price is now back at the level at which the bank sold those shares. Shareholders must be livid. Not only that, Deutsche Bank’s stock market value is less than 40 percent of its net worth as stated on its balance sheet (its stock price is €11.30 and its book value per share is €30.16.) When a company trades at a hefty discount to its net worth, it either needs to raise a lot of new capital, which doesn’t seem to be the case at Deutsche Bank, or investors have serious doubts about the company’s business model.
“So, I’ll rejig the bank’s business model,” you say to yourself, “that’s what new C.E.O.’s do!”
You look for ways and stumble upon an unavoidable obstacle. Deutsche Bank is heavily dependent on Wall Street revenue, which can be far more unpredictable than revenue from other businesses. Last year, revenue from Deutsche Bank’s corporate and investment bank, which has struggled to keep up with its peers, accounted for 54 percent of the bank’s overall revenue. Compare that with JPMorgan Chase, whose investment bank accounted for a third of its revenue last year. And you are stuck with the Wall Street operations; no one wants to buy an investment bank with €1.2 trillion in assets.
Maybe you can cut costs, another go-to tactic of an incoming C.E.O. Indeed, Deutsche Bank’s investment bank employees seem better paid than their counterparts at other firms. Going by a back of the envelope calculation, the unit’s compensation expense is equivalent to 44 percent of its revenue (excluding the interest the investment bank earns on its assets.) That’s higher than the 39 percent ratio for JPMorgan’s investment bank last year, and 41 percent for Goldman Sachs. Maybe you could slash the pay of bankers and traders.
Sorry, Mr. Cryan tried that.
— Peter Eavis
The roller coaster ride in tech continues.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite tumbled nearly 3 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent.
Tech companies in the S.&P. 500 tech sector slid 3.4 percent, the steepest decline among the index’s 11 main sectors.
Chip makers were among the hardest hit on the day. Shares of Nvidia dropped 7.8 percent after it said it was halting tests on self-driving cars.
Nvidia’s slide weighed on the shares of rival chip makers. Micron Technologies fell 5.7 percent, and AMD dropped 4.2 percent.
But semiconductor companies were hardly the only ones getting pummeled. The famed FANG stocks, among the biggest gainers over the past year, tumbled Tuesday. Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet all finished down more than 4.5 percent.
Tesla tumbled 8.2 percent on news that the National Transportation Safety Board is conducting its second investigation this year into a Tesla car crash. The stock is off nearly 20 percent since March 12 on increasing concerns that the electric-car maker will fall short of its production goals for the Model 3.
Twitter dropped 12 percent after Andrew Left’s Citron Research said it was shorting the social media company.
Tuesday’s fall continued the recent volatility in American stocks, and specifically, the shares of tech companies. Enthusiasm about the technology sector had long propelled stock markets to new heights. But the specter of intensifying regulation of the industry has taken the sheen off. Last week tech stocks dragged the broader markets to their worst week in more than two years. The selling took a break on Monday as the S.&P. 500’s tech sector rose 4 percent pushing the index to its best day in almost three years.
A vigorous debate is taking place over who should become the next head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a powerful regulator on Wall Street’s front lines.
Contenders for the post should address one question: What will you do to clean up the culture at banks?
William C. Dudley, the outgoing president of the New York Fed, had made improving the culture at the firms he oversaw a key initiative of his tenure of at the institution.
When Mr. Dudley took the helm in 2009, the financial crisis had left the New York Fed’s reputation as a regulator damaged. The institution had not done enough to address the severe weaknesses at the banks it oversaw, like Citigroup. Early on, Mr. Dudley commissioned a review of the New York Fed’s bank supervision department and then overhauled it. But in 2012, JPMorgan Chase, also overseen by the New York Fed, suffered huge trading losses in what was known as the London Whale scandal. The New York Fed was faulted.
Following the embarrassing London Whale imbroglio, Mr. Dudley used his bully pulpit to focus on bankers’ ethics. Banks were stronger financially, but recent scandals showed that the culture of their firms still needed to improve, he observed. And if a cleanup didn’t occur, it may be a sign that they needed to be reduced in size, Mr. Dudley said in a 2014 speech that rattled Wall Street.
The next big banking scandal — Wells Fargo’s widespread mistreatment of customers, which came to light in 2016 – strongly supported Mr. Dudley’s arguments. Wells Fargo was considered one of the most stable “too big to fail” banks, with its focus on plain vanilla lending, but in fact, its retail sales culture had degraded. The Fed earlier this year slapped relatively harsh sanctions on the bank, including a limit on its size.
The example of Wells Fargo is pertinent for John C. Williams, a top candidate to replace Mr. Dudley. Mr. Williams is head of the San Francisco Fed, which oversees Wells Fargo.
And there is still work to do to fulfill Mr. Dudley’s initiative. He proposed a “database of banker misconduct,” similar to the one for brokers, that would track a banker’s record on ethics and compliance. Banks could consult it before hiring. But this idea has not taken off. In a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Monday, Mr. Dudley explained why: “Understandably, firms are concerned about legal risk if they share information about banker misconduct, but there may be ways to address these concerns through legislation.”
Mr. Dudley had also pressed banks’ boards of directors to focus on ethical culture. On Monday, he said the boards had set up separate committees to focus on culture and conduct. “We’ve made part of the journey but I think more could be done,” Mr. Dudley said. Whether it will, depends on who steps into his shoes.
— Peter Eavis
The yield curve is near its flattest level since the financial crisis. The difference between the yields on the two-year and 10-year Treasury notes is at 0.52 percentage points, not far off its post-crisis low of 0.50 percentage points hit in January.
That has some asking if the nine-year-old economic recovery is at risk.
Since the end of World War II, no barometer has done a better job of predicting a recession than the yield curve. A flattening yield curve tends to indicate slowing economic growth in the near future. But what is more worrisome is if the yield curve goes beyond flattening and into outright inversion.
The chances of a recession when the yield curve is flattening is just 20 percent, according to the calculations of Jim Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group. That jumps to 72 percent when the curve inverts.
There is another reason not to be too concerned about a flattening yield curve, and it has to do with the actions of central banks around the world. The unprecedented stimulus from the Fed, Bank of Japan and E.C.B. have brought down long-term rates. That means the yield curve might not be the predictor it once was.
A week after a self-driving Uber vehicle hit and killed a woman in Arizona, the fallout continues to spread.
Nvidia on Tuesday said it had suspended self-driving tests in New Jersey, Santa Clara, Japan and Germany. A Nvidia spokesperson said in a statement, using A.V. as an abbreviation for automated vehicles :
Nvidia’s artificial intelligence platform is the autonomous industry’s leader. The chip maker has partnered with auto makers such as Volkswagen, Tesla and Audi. Around 320 firms - from software developers, automakers and their suppliers, sensor and mapping companies - use Nvidia’s platform, Reuters reports.
Nvidia is just the latest company to halt tests on self-driving cars in the wake of the accident in Arizona. Toyota, nuTonomy and Uber have all already done so.
Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics, wrote:
Citigroup became the biggest Wall Street firm thus far to take actions to limit gun sales. Others, like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Visa and Mastercard, are studying options. (Bank of America and JPMorgan are two of the bankruptcy lenders to Remington Outdoor, along with Wells Fargo, which is the N.R.A.’s bank of choice.)
In his latest column, Andrew suggests these new tactics:
• Credit-card issuers and banks could give gun sellers who have announced restrictions on sales, like Walmart and Dick’s Sporting Goods, a special merchant category code. That could help financial firms decide with whom they want to do business.
• Payment processors could geofence gun shows and enforce restrictions on transactions coming from those GPS coordinates.
Here’s what Citi’s C.E.O., Mike Corbat, told Andrew about his firm’s actions:
Where to begin? The company faces inquiries from the Federal Trade Commission, the Senate Judiciary Committee, several state attorneys general and the watchdog group Common Cause. And Britain’s Parliament asked Mark Zuckerberg to testify (he’s sending a deputy).
Facebook’s stock overall is headed for its worst monthly performance in nearly five years. Yet the company’s shares recovered from another beating, closing up slightly yesterday. And just two analysts have “sell” ratings on the stock, compared to 44 who have “buy” ratings.
In Cambridge Analytica news: Did a Brexit campaign group violate election laws by not declaring some of its spending with AggregateIQ, a digital marketer with ties to Cambridge Analytica?
Critics’ corner: Nir Kaissar of Gadfly thinks that the big question is how many users value privacy more than having a Facebook account. Charlie Warzel of BuzzFeed argues the Cambridge Analytica scandal could lead to “a full-scale personal and public reckoning that looks at the way we’ve used the internet for the last decade.”
Bankers and deal lawyers may want to send some of their bonus to Amazon this year. M.&A. activity is running at record levels and concerns about the e-commerce giant have played a role in driving a number of the largest deals.
The latest? GlaxoSmithKline’s decision to buy out Novartis’s stake in their consumer health joint venture, which includes Sensodyne toothpaste, for $13 billion.
Amazon may not have been the main reason, but its impact on the pricing of consumer health products likely played a role.
Historically, such products have lower margins than prescription drugs, but customers that keep coming back. Sales, though, are slowing, up just 3 percent over the past two years, half the rate of the previous two, according to Morgan Stanley. Price competition from online retailers like Amazon has some worried it could decelerate further.
That partly helps explain why Novartis was willing to exit the business.
So why was Glaxo willing to pay up for the business?
1) Starting this month Novartis had the right to require Glaxo purchase its stake in the joint venture. Doing the deal now removes uncertainty.
2) The deal will allow its new chief executive to “get on with fixing GSK’s pharmaceutical division, which suffers from a relatively lackluster pipeline of new drugs,” writes Neil Unmack of Breakingviews. 
Shares of Glaxo have gained 6.3 percent.
The S.&P. 500 rose 2.7 percent yesterday, its best day in nearly three years (as President Trump would be happy to tell you). Maybe it’s because, as Peter Eavis writes, the president’s threats of a trade war with China might be merely negotiating tactics.
More from Peter: According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about shifting trade terms. If China doesn’t show real signs that it will do more to open its markets, Mr. Trump could up the ante — roiling the markets again. But the White House’s more conciliatory tone yesterday after last week’s sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full trade war.
But remember that Beijing is firmly committed to its industrial policy, while the U.S. is equally adamant about letting American companies operate more freely in China. (Even if G.M. and Ford, who have joint ventures with Chinese companies, wouldn’t benefit from a lower tariff on U.S. car imports.) And Stephen Roach of Yale thinks that the U.S.-China trade deficit will keep widening.
Elsewhere in trade: The U.S. is near a deal with South Korea, after winning concessions on steel exports and imports of U.S. cars. Betting on trade wars is risky. Hedge funds are taking refuge in southern European stocks. And the Western world’s economic institutions are being attacked from within.
• White House lawyers are examining whether more than $500 million of loans to Kushner Companies may have violated criminal laws or federal ethics regulations. (WSJ)
• Democrats and progressive groups aren’t happy with the possibility of John C. Williams taking over the New York Fed. (NYT)
• Stormy Daniels’s interview with “60 Minutes” drew 22 million viewers, the program’s highest ratings in almost a decade. She’s suing President Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, for defamation.
• The White House’s criterion for judicial nominees: favor shrinking the federal government. (NYT)
The state’s governor, Doug Ducey, ordered Uber to halt self-driving car tests there after the death of a pedestrian in Tempe.
Uber’s repeated problems — even after a change in leadership — have led the journalist Steven Hill to argue that limits should be placed on the company, including caps on the number of vehicles and rules against subsidizing rides.
Elsewhere in tech
• Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Masa Son of SoftBank met in New York. (@spagov)
• The F.C.C. is another regulator wary of Huawei. (NYT)
• Google, Tesla and Qualcomm are banding together to challenge SoftBank’s ARM Holdings. (The Information)
• Bitcoin fell below $8,000 after Twitter banned some cryptocurrency ads. (CNBC)
• A.I. is now coming for Hollywood special-effects producers. (NYT)
• IBM faces accusations of age discrimination. (ProPublica)
Third Point: Dan Loeb’s hedge fund has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing, following Pershing Square Capital Management. They’re both betting that the industrial conglomerate will split up.
Elliott: The firm has reportedly taken a stake in Travelport Worldwide and plans to push the company to consider selling itself.
D.E. Shaw: The hedge fund scored another win yesterday when Lowe’s said that its chairman and C.E.O., Robert Niblock, would retire. D.E. Shaw has been pressuring the retailer to expand sales more quickly and will have a say in choosing the new C.E.O. .
Barington Capital: To settle a proxy fight, the embattled cosmetics company Avon gave the activist fund a seat on its board. The fund has been pushing for a sale.
• Meet HNA’s quiet power broker: Wang Wei, younger brother of the Chinese conglomerate’s chairman. (NYT)
• Akzo Nobel has reached a deal to sell its specialty chemicals unit to the Carlyle Group and GIC of Singapore for €10.1 billion, including debt, or $12.6 billion. (FT)
• Brookfield Property Partners agreed to buy the 66 percent of GGP that it doesn’t already own for about $9.25 billion. (WSJ)
• Spotify is paying I.P.O.-level fees for its non-I.P.O. SmartSheet, a cloud-based business software company, reportedly plans to go public. Both Yeti, the maker of upscale coolers, and Gategroup, the Swiss airline catering business owned by HNA, have pulled their offerings.
• Lightspeed Venture Partners is raising $1.8 billion for new funds. Lerer Hippeau is taking over most of the portfolio companies of the embattled Binary Capital.
• How Alibaba and Tencent became Asia’s biggest deal makers. (FT)
• Why private equity hasn’t helped smaller grocery chains struggling against Walmart and Amazon. (NYT)
• Deutsche Bank is reportedly seeking to replace its C.E.O., John Cryan, according to The Times of London and Financial News.
• Harry Keogh, the Coutts & Company banker accused of sexual harassment, has resigned. (WSJ)
• JPMorgan Chase has named James Roddy as the co-head of its global diversified industrials investment banking team. (Reuters)
• Shell Oil plans to name Gretchen Watkins, the former C.E.O. of Maersk Oil, as president and U.S. country chair. (Houston Business Journal)
• Nickelodeon has cut ties with Dan Schneider, the producer of “iCarly” and “Kenan and Kel.” (WSJ)
• Goldman Sachs began an investigation after a former employee wrote to Lloyd Blankfein saying that a group of colleagues attempted to rape her in 1994. (Financial News)
• Goldman is deploying investment banking partners to hubs like Atlanta, Dallas, Seattle and Toronto. (Business Insider)
• The average Wall Street banker’s bonus last year was the highest since before the financial crisis. (WSJ)
• How a tiny Latvian bank became a haven for the world’s dirty money. (WSJ)
• Cisco Systems promised to donate $50 million over five years to fight homelessness in Santa Clara County, Calif. (WaPo)
• Royal Dutch Shell has set out what it thinks it would take for the world to control climate change — including using far less oil by 2070. (WaPo)
• G.M. said its South Korean unit would file for bankruptcy if a labor union rejected a restructuring plan. (Bloomberg)
• Imagine if Gordon Gekko bought news empires. Heath Freeman is like that, only worse, writes Joe Nocera. (BloombergView)
We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
Our usual message to children is that they have a lot less authority than they might wish. Parents, teachers, adults: These are the people, we explain, who are in charge. But in March, as tens of thousands of children across the country flooded out of their classrooms to protest gun violence in schools, the moment was hailed by some as a tremendous display of power — perhaps especially in those places where school administrators flexed their own authority and tried to prohibit students from participating. “Supporters say the walkouts and demonstrations represent a realization of power and influence by young people,” The Washington Post reported. “So amazing to see young people take back their power and USE it!” Miley Cyrus tweeted. “By myself, I don’t think I have the power,” one student told MSNBC. “But together with all these people here, I think we can make a change.”
The very reason for the demonstrations, of course, was that the students did not possess one very specific kind of power — the ability to make rules or laws that might somehow curtail the number of guns and shootings in their schools. This lack of control over their own safety has been a key aspect of their rhetoric ever since survivors of the February shooting in Parkland, Fla., captured the nation’s attention via Twitter. “We’re children,” David Hogg said in an appearance on CNN. “You guys are the adults.”
At least one senator seemed to agree, locating the real power not with the students but with the audience they addressed: “Keep speaking truth to power and demanding change,” Kirsten Gillibrand urged. In theory, that power resides with the nation’s voters, but even this is too indirect; we already know that Americans overwhelmingly favor more stringent gun regulation than their elected officials are inclined to enact. It is a much smaller segment of people who hold the clearest authority to change things: the professional political class. And even as those children demonstrated, a healthy portion of that class was studiously ignoring them and earnestly debating the merits of arming teachers instead. If they were in any real way affected by the power of a student walkout, they certainly weren’t admitting it. The students’ power to captivate a share of the public sat in one corner; elected officials’ power to actually rule over that public sat quietly in another. No matter how thundering the children’s dissent might have been, there was no meaningful intersection between those two kinds of power.
In 1990, the Harvard international relations scholar Joseph Nye published a book, “Bound to Lead,” in which he drew a distinction between two different forms of power. One was what he called “hard” or “command” power — the traditional guns-and-money leverage one nation could use to force another nation to do what it wanted. For the other, he coined the term “soft power” — meaning “when one country gets other countries to want what it wants.” Soft power was more seductive than coercive; it could be built on culture, on ideals, on leading by example.
Nye’s terms are now used by political scientists and business-school professors alike. They are a product of the same line of thinking that appears in a common expression: “Power comes in many forms.” This is the same line of thinking too that so often has undergraduate students intoxicated by the ideas of the French theorist Michel Foucault, who saw power as ephemeral, taking countless shapes, everywhere and nowhere: It was “at once visible and invisible, present and hidden, ubiquitous,” like a light emanating from a thousand pinprick sources. Foucault’s idea of resistance was to spend your time mapping out all those pinprick sources of power, like the stars: If you wanted to speak truth to power, he suggested, you first had to divine your position inside a whole constellation of influence. This sort of thinking can make our view of power far more nuanced and complex, but it can also make it quite confusing. The dispiriting message some took away from Foucault was that things were, ultimately, a bit hopeless: Power was far too chaotic to help anyone figure out the right thing to do.
This dizzying and disordered vision of power isn’t reserved for high-stakes international affairs or abstract philosophical contexts. It is a feature of almost every social or cultural battle we have. The question of power has buzzed its way, for instance, through a huge share of recent conversations about sexual harassment. In many #MeToo stories, the power a harasser has over his target is clear and hard as a diamond: He is the boss; he can hire or fire, promote or demote. But in so many others, a softer pull is involved — a matter of age, or ambient status, or standing within an industry. Last month, when several women told NPR about what they saw as exploitative relationships with the writer Sherman Alexie, one described her account as one “about power, and abuse of power.” This wasn’t because Alexie necessarily held any formal or official power over the other writers he encountered; the power his accuser was referring to derived from his literary success, influence and social standing.
People hold countless opinions about accusations like this, and plenty of them have already been aired at great and contentious length. But even within those arguments, the question of who holds “power” is a constant, each side insisting it lies with the other. In a Slate interview with Isaac Chotiner, the writer Katie Roiphe, who has expressed skepticism about what she sees as the rush to judgment of #MeToo, described being pilloried in response. When Chotiner tried to suggest that being vilified by Twitter users might not be so consequential, the two reached an impasse. “You are saying they don’t have power, but I think they do have power,” Roiphe said. She saw a group of social media critics and writers as having the power to set the terms of the conversation; they undoubtedly felt the same way about her, a tenured professor scolding them from the pages of a prestigious publication like Harper’s.
It was this point, Chotiner said, that was “the crux of our disagreement.” Which is in its own way a summation of where we all are: Everyone, from the online critic to the president, seems always to believe that power lies elsewhere, in some branch of the constellation beyond their reach. Try to map out almost any part of this cultural moment, and you will find something similarly chaotic — all the players passing by one another, each convinced they are doing the right thing, and very few convinced that they, in the face of powerful opposition, have enough influence to affect much at all.
Those who feel inspired by cultural moments like the student walkout tend to be struck by how easy it can feel, once a certain critical mass builds, to sweep away what once seemed like entrenched and unassailable sources of might. “Power is like money: imaginary, entirely dependent on belief,” Tim Kreider wrote in a Times Op-Ed in March, urging the young to rise up against the usual order of things. “Most of the power of institutions lies in the faith people have in them.” But the slippage between those two sentences — between “entirely” and “most of” — is not always easy to overcome. Some power is very concrete; some power really is a gun to your head. And the fact that some of it is very soft — that it is socially constructed, or dependent on belief — does not make it any less real. It is indeed just like money, just not in the way Kreider thinks: You may conclude that dollar bills are mere worthless symbols of value, but your lack of faith will not prevent your starving to death without them.
The chaos and multiplicity of power, then, can be something of a magic trick, keeping us arguing forever about who has it. Which isn’t to say there isn’t room for clarity about certain definite, reliable sources of power. The science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick, for instance, found it difficult to believe in any single, stable reality — but in a 1978 essay, he explained how even an anarchic world could have its masters. He believed in creating new realities, he said; he’d dedicated his life to it. But he didn’t think all realities were created equal. “Unceasingly we are bombarded with pseudorealities manufactured by very sophisticated people using very sophisticated electronic mechanisms,” he said. “I do not distrust their motives; I distrust their power. They have a lot of it.”
He was talking, back then, about television and the Disney corporation. Today, though, it’s easy to hear those words and think of Facebook, or Twitter, or any of the “electronic mechanisms” on which our broad movements of anger or disinformation emerge. Right now the owners of these platforms seem to believe they are merely facilitating maps of every point of power in the universe. They thrive on all our little contests and arguments about who has power over whom and eschew responsibility for any of the chaos created by them. But as we’ve learned in recent weeks, there is actual power accruing to the hosts of all our debates, and to the maps they make of us — maps others may use in trying to manipulate, say, the outcome of an election. This power is concrete, and its source obvious. It is worth, as Dick says, our distrust.
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that the Second Amendment — the right to keep and bear arms — “will never be repealed,” responding to an opinion piece written by a retired Supreme Court justice who called for just that.
Mr. Trump’s declaration in an early morning tweet came after days of silence on the subject, despite student-organized  marches around the country over the weekend calling for more gun control.
On Tuesday, the retired Justice John Paul Stevens wrote an Op-Ed  in The New York Times calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment.
“Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday,” Mr. Stevens wrote. “These demonstrations demand our respect. They reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society.”
Repealing the Second Amendment would have to be approved by Congress, and there are no signs that such a move is underway.
“It is unequivocally not the Democratic caucus’ position to repeal the Second Amendment,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the top Democrat in the Senate, said in a statement to The New York Times on Wednesday. “The president has to tweet this because he and the Republicans are reeling.”
Mr. Schumer, of New York, said the student marches are having an impact on the traditional argument about gun safety. The choice, he said, is not between gun rights and no gun rights.
“Reasonable proposals that adhere to the Second Amendment but improve gun safety such as universal background checks, protective orders and a debate on the assault weapons ban are the way of the future,” Mr. Schumer said.
Mr. Stevens retired from the Supreme Court in 2010. He wrote a major dissent about the Second Amendment in one of the court’s hardest-fought decisions. Mr. Stevens argued that the amendment does not protect an individual’s right to own firearms.
“That decision — which I remain convinced was wrong and certainly was debatable — has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power,” Mr. Stevens wrote on Tuesday, referring to the National Rifle Association, the powerful gun lobbying group. “Overturning that decision via a constitutional amendment to get rid of the Second Amendment would be simple and would do more to weaken the N.R.A.’s ability to stymie legislative debate and block constructive gun control legislation than any other available option.”
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, indicated the administration was not considering a repeal of the Second Amendment.
“The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment,” Ms. Sanders said on Tuesday in response to a question about Mr. Stevens’s Op-Ed. “We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals, not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights.”
In his tweet, Mr. Trump also said that Democrats support repealing the Second Amendment, but that has not been the case in Congress, which is only considering modest policy changes on guns. In the 1990s, a Democratic congressman from New York introduced legislation for a repeal, but it did not get any traction. Mr. Trump’s opponent in the 2016 election, Hillary Clinton, did not campaign to repeal the Second Amendment.
“We can uphold Second Amendment rights while preventing senseless gun violence,” Mrs. Clinton tweeted in May 2016.
Mr. Trump had the support of the N.R.A. early in his campaign for president and has said he is “the biggest fan of the Second Amendment.” After the deadly mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last month, Mr. Trump proposed stricter controls on access to guns, particularly raising the age to purchase an assault weapon to 21 from 18. After a meeting with the N.R.A., Mr. Trump no longer advocated for an age increase.
Instead, the White House — with the support of the N.R.A. — says appropriately trained teachers should be armed to respond to future mass shootings.
“Gun free zones are proven targets of killers,” Mr. Trump tweeted on March 1.
Arming teachers has been widely criticized, recently by people who gathered for marches for more gun control.
At a March for Our Lives demonstration in Anchorage, Alaska, on Saturday, Melanie Anderson, a 44-year-old middle schoolteacher, held up a sign that said “teacher, not sharp shooter.”
The gun-control debate is one of the most contentious in American politics, pitting proponents of regulation against gun-rights advocates. Behind all of this is the Second Amendment.
“It’s only 27 words long,” said Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court for The New York Times. “But it is probably the most cryptic part of the United States Constitution.”
This video explainer breaks down those 27 words, teases out the two clauses that judges and scholars examine and looks at how the amendment is interpreted today.
In this video:
• Mr. Liptak has covered the Supreme Court for 10 years. Before that, he was a national legal correspondent, covering the law more generally. He joined The Times after practicing law for 14 years.
Background reading and watching:
• Trump Says Second Amendment ‘Will Never Be Repealed’
• Demonstrators Who Brought Guns and an Opposing Message: ‘Shoot Back’
• Trump’s Evolving Positions on Gun Issues
• Once Again, Push for Gun Control Collides With Political Reality
• 6 Stories and Charts to Help You Better Understand Gun Violence in the U.S.
From the opinion pages: 
• John Paul Stevens, a retired Supreme Court justice, writes, Repeal the Second Amendment
MIAMI — Starting in the fall of 2017, David Hogg, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior, applied to a half-dozen universities that offered programs in journalism, political science or photography. His plan was to become a journalist or filmmaker.
Less than six months later, the Parkland, Fla., teenager had tragically become one of the best-known high school students in America. After 17 of his fellow students and teachers were killed in a Feb. 14 mass shooting, Mr. Hogg became a leader in the grass-roots, student-led gun control movement that spread around the country, pushing a campaign to hold lawmakers accountable for their votes on gun legislation.
The day after the shooting, Mr. Hogg got his first college application letter back: a rejection from California State University at Long Beach. At least two more denials followed, along with acceptances to three universities. Now Mr. Hogg, whose name and face are surely recognizable to college admissions officers everywhere, has no idea where or if he is going to college in the fall.
“Sure, it’s disappointing and annoying, but not surprising. There are a lot of amazing people who do not get into or go to college,” said Mr. Hogg, who carries a 4.2 GPA and scored 1270 on the SAT. “I wanted to make a difference through storytelling and political activism, but I am already doing that now.”
The Parkland students are a case study in civic engagement. They are among the leaders of the #NeverAgain movement, collectively delivering fiery speeches that demand change, promoting their message on social media and organizing the March for Our Lives rally held last weekend, which drew participants from across the globe.
Much of their leadership and community work, driven by the loss of classmates and friends, might not have been considered in the college admission process. Now, some of the most vocal Parkland seniors — whether accepted or denied to their top college choices — are rethinking their college plans, hoping in one way or another to capitalize on the momentum.
Samantha Fuentes, who was wounded by a bullet and shrapnel in the Parkland attack, is contemplating sitting out the first semester or even the full year to continue the campaign to promote more rigorous gun safety laws.
“If the movement is solidifying even more and hitting the nation from all directions and they need soldiers, I will put college off,” said Ms. Fuentes, 18, who is staying close to home with tentative plans to attend Broward Community College, then Florida Atlantic University.
As a shooting victim and survivor, she is willing to speak at universities or to politicians about gun legislation.
“The truth is, us kids, we just want to be the voice for the people we lost, or for people who don’t think they have a voice,” said Ms. Fuentes, who would like to eventually become an elementary schoolteacher. “I am prioritizing this over college right now, I am prioritizing people’s lives over my education.”
University admissions offices declined to discuss individual applications, but many noted that civic engagement is a plus in considering whether to admit an applicant. In fact, some colleges publicly assured high school applicants in advance of last weekend’s March for Our Lives rallies that their participation in peaceful protests would not harm admission chances.
Harvard, for example, issued a statement: “The mission of Harvard College is to provide a deeply transformative liberal arts and sciences education that will prepare our students for a life of citizenship and leadership. Fundamental to our mission is our belief that students have the right to protest peacefully about issues of concern to them. Students who are disciplined for engaging responsibly in exercising their rights and freedoms would not have their chances of admission compromised or their admissions revoked.”
While on spring break this week, Mr. Hogg said he was leaning toward taking a gap year to focus on the midterm elections, hoping to rally young voters and target politicians supported by the National Rifle Association.
“We are trying to get these laws changed to drive down the number of people who die by gun violence,” he said. “I can figure out everything else later.”
Mr. Hogg said he does not believe his outspokenness had anything to do with the college denials, but admits it has been frustrating. In a late-night, March 16 message on Twitter — liked by at least 64,000 and retweeted nearly 6,600 times — Mr. Hogg told his followers, “Just got rejected from another college but that’s ok we’re already changing the world. Goodnight everyone.”
He added that he was comforting himself by eating chocolate muffins. The response was mixed, with some mocking his rejection, some encouraging him to take a gap year and others touting him as precisely the type of student colleges should recruit.
After a Twitter follower suggested he apply to a California university, Mr. Hogg confirmed that one of the schools that denied his application was University of California, San Diego. The University of California, Los Angeles, also turned him down, he said later.
On Wednesday morning, Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio host, taunted Mr. Hogg by linking to a story on Twitter about his college application denials. “David Hogg Rejected by Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it,” she said. Mr. Hogg pushed back, calling for sponsors to boycott Ms. Ingraham’s show. He later posted a list of advertisers to his nearly 600,000 followers, and Ms. Ingraham on Thursday apologized on Twitter.
“Any student should be proud of a 4.2 GPA,” including Mr. Hogg, she wrote. “On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland.”
Ryan Deitsch, a Parkland classmate who wants to follow his father and grandfather into filmmaking and photography, said his applications were rejected from several schools, including U.C.L.A. and Northwestern University. He was admitted to Florida State University, Savannah College of Art and Design and Columbia College Chicago.
“I don’t know what the next couple of months will look like. Right now, we are ramped up and the world is watching so now is the time for us to act,” Mr. Deitsch, 18, said just hours after a phone interview with Columbia College Hollywood, which is not affiliated with the Chicago school. “To do that, some of us might have to change our original plans. Right now, I am thinking of taking at least a semester off to devote to the movement.”
Though the shooting and organized response thrust Parkland students into the spotlight, Mr. Deitsch, a student journalist who filmed students in the aftermath of the shooting, does not believe it entitles him to special college privileges.
“It’s disappointing to not get into certain schools, but I try to keep things in perspective,” he said. “I am not angry. If I didn’t qualify then I shouldn’t just be admitted because I spoke the loudest. There is much more important work for us to do.”
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Julie Turkewitz, a correspondent who is based in Denver, discussed the tech she’s using.
How often are you on the road on assignment?
I’m on the road about a third of the year. I cover a section of the West, which means I spend a lot of time in small towns and on winding mountain roads. I also work breaking news stories all over the country.
So that must mean you live out of a suitcase. What are your most essential tech tools for doing your work?
My travel bag is a constant work in progress. I try to be prepared for anything, because I never know when a trip is going to involve a surprise sit-down with a governor or an unexpected flight to cover a hurricane.
For all the talk about the changing media landscape, the most important tools of my job are a pen, a notebook and a way to file the story to my editors. There are still many places in America without cellphone or internet service, so simply communicating with my editors can be a challenge. I’m often filing on a laptop from the back seat of a car on the side of a road over a weak signal through my phone or a mobile hot spot.
I carry two phones (in case one falls in the mud), a power strip that allows me to charge my computer from the car, and a Canon 5D camera that I bought off a White House photographer years ago. I use my iPhone’s recording app, or a downloadable app called TapeACall, and I will occasionally pay for a transcription service for lengthy interviews. I’ve used both Trint.com and Rev.com.
When I’m working on breaking news stories, Twitter is crucial. Law enforcement agencies send out updates through social media, and the first thing I do when I head into a big story is make sure that I'm receiving their new tweets as immediate text messages. Then I use social media to report the texture of the story as it unfolds.
Beyond breaking news, I’ve found Twitter to be a great tool for conveying a sense of place. Sometimes a single picture or video can really cut to the heart of a story.
Lastly, roving reporters have to take care of themselves. I travel with an extra thin yoga mat from Manduka that packs down to the size of a book.
What could be better?
We need longer-lasting batteries. Battery life is a constant source of stress for reporters in the field.
You’ve reported extensively on the Parkland, Fla., school shooting and many other such shootings. After Parkland, the survivors used Twitter and other outlets to speak out about gun control. Do you foresee this use of social media having any effect on gun control regulations?
We’re already seeing that happen. Several of the Parkland students now have tens of thousands of followers on Twitter, and they have been using that tool to speak directly to people in power. And when Gov. Rick Scott of Florida passed a major gun bill recently, he credited the students for making it possible.
I’m curious to see what’s next. Will social media messaging continue to be as powerful as the weeks go on? And how will students deal with their new roles as survivors, advocates and public figures?
Has tech affected how you research and investigate the people you write about?
Social media has expanded the reporter-subject relationship, making it more personal, and allowing for interaction beyond the life of a particular story.
This means that I sometimes contact people on Facebook to ask for an interview, and stay connected to them for weeks or months. As a reporter covering a vast region — and as someone who focuses on capturing national narratives and sentiments — I find social media to be a helpful way to avoid a news bubble. It keeps me connected to Montana and Utah and Wyoming even when I can’t be there.
Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?
Audible audiobooks and Spotify playlists have gotten me through many a road trip.
But my current obsession is taking time off from technology. As someone who spends a lot of time linked to the internet, I try to spend off-days away from devices. I buy books. I keep a physical calendar, not a digital one. I get two papers on Sundays and have several magazine subscriptions.
And I try to spend as much non-travel time in face-to-face conversations with friends and family.
CAYCE, S.C. —  Authorities say part of Interstate 26 in South Carolina was closed for almost three hours as a man with a gun refused to get out of his vehicle following a police chase, and was then fatally shot.
Lexington County Sheriff Jay Koon said the standoff near Columbia ended with gunfire around 1:45 p.m. Wednesday when the man made a sudden move as a SWAT team approached to arrest him.
The Lexington County coroner's office confirmed he died.
Koon says the man was wanted for failing to appear in court on a charge of being a felon with a gun.
It was not immediately clear who shot him. The sheriff says deputies saw him put the gun to his head as he stopped west of Columbia.
His name was not released.
WASHINGTON —  A doctored animation and photo have surfaced online appearing to show one of the survivors of the Florida high school shooting tearing up the U.S. Constitution.
The image of Emma Gonzalez was doctored from a March 23 "Teen Vogue" story in which she ripped up a shooting range target. The publication's editors pointed out the fake image on Twitter.
The doctored animation and news stories about it were shared nearly 70,000 times on social media.
Supporters of the Second Amendment pointed to the image as evidence that gun control supporters are going too far.
Gun control supporters expressed outrage when the image was shown to be fake.
Gonzalez spoke with other Parkland, Florida, students on Saturday at a protest in Washington to demand action on gun control.
MIAMI —  A Miami Republican congresswoman is defending a well-known Florida school shooting survivor from another lawmaker who attacked her for wearing a Cuban flag patch as she advocated for gun control in Washington.
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said Tuesday she spoke to activist Emma Gonzalez's father about a comment by Iowa Congressman Steve King. King took to Facebook to question the teenager's guns stance and her use of the communist-run island's flag.
King says Gonzalez was claiming Cuban heritage while not speaking Spanish and advocating for gun control when her ancestors fled a dictatorship that disarmed people.
Ros-Lehtinen says Gonzalez wore the patch because she is proud of her heritage, not because she supports Castro's dictatorship.
The Parkland student thanked the congresswoman in a tweet .
ASHEVILLE, N.C. —  A candidate for sheriff who supports gun restrictions has apologized after shrugging his shoulders and saying "OK" in response to gun control opponents who say their weapons would have to be taken from their "cold, dead hands."
A video of Buncombe County sheriff's candidate R. Daryl Fisher delivering the line on March 7 has been shared more than 5,000 times and seen more than 285,000 times since it was posted by a conservative site on Saturday.
The Asheville Citizen-Times reports that Fisher apologized Monday and said the one-sentence clip posted online stripped the joke's context.
Some people responded to the post saying Fisher is the reason the United States has the Second Amendment.
___
Information from: The Asheville Citizen-Times, http://www.citizen-times.com
(Reuters) - Remington Outdoor Co Inc [FREDM.UL], one of the largest U.S. makers of firearms, filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday to carry out a debt-cutting deal with creditors amid mounting public pressure for greater gun control.
The company listed assets in the range of $500 million to $1 billion and liabilities in the range of $500 million to $1 billion. http://bit.ly/2IS9hWH
Remington, America's oldest gun maker, announced the deal in February to reduce its $950 million debtload in a deal that will transfer control of the company to creditors.
The filing comes after a Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida high school that killed 17 and spurred an intense campaign for gun control by activists.
The massacre inspired hundreds of thousands of young Americans to lead huge U.S. anti-gun rallies on Saturday.
In some of the biggest U.S. youth demonstrations for decades, protesters called on lawmakers and President Donald Trump to confront the issue. Voter registration activists fanned out in the crowds, signing up thousands of the nation's newest voters.
Major U.S. companies and retailers have taken some steps to restrict firearm sales.
Citigroup Inc said last week it will require new retail-sector clients to sell firearms only to customers who passed background checks and to bar sales of high-capacity magazines.
Citi also said it was restricting sales for buyers under 21, a move adopted by other large retailers, while Kroger Co's superstore chain Fred Meyer said it will stop selling firearms entirely.
CERBERUS TO LOSE OWNERSHIP
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the private equity firm that controls Remington, will lose ownership in the bankruptcy.
Remington's creditors, which sources told Reuters include Franklin Templeton Investments and JPMorgan Asset Management, will exchange their debt holdings for Remington equity.
The creditors inked the debt-cutting deal prior to the Parkland shooting, and it is unclear if any have exited. The restructuring support agreement allows creditors to sell their holdings, but the buyer is bound by the deal.
One investor told IFR, a Thomson Reuters news provider, that his firm had contemplated buying the Remington loans that will be exchanged into equity, which were offered at as low as 25 cents on the dollar.
"We bowed out because we were uncomfortable," he said.
After a Remington Bushmaster rifle was used in the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in Connecticut in 2012 that killed 20 children and six adults, Cerberus tried unsuccessfully to sell Remington, then known as Freedom Group.
Katie-Mesner Hage, an attorney representing Sandy Hook families in a lawsuit against Remington, said in a prepared statement that she did not expect the gun maker's bankruptcy would affect their case.
Remington and other gunmakers have suffered from slumping sales in the past year as fears of stricter gun laws have faded.
The chief executive of American Outdoor Brands Corp, maker of the Smith & Wesson gun used in the Parkland shooting, said on March 1 that some gun retailers reported increased sales after the Florida school shooting.
Remington filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Gopakumar Warrier)
PARKLAND, Fla. —  As a team of volunteers began dismantling the sprawling display of balloons, flowers and teddy bears left in memory of the 17 people gunned down at a Florida high school, students and officials met Wednesday to talk about how to keep gun control in the spotlight after Saturday's marches.
Mounds of mementos surrounding 17 white crosses outside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School were being packed into boxes for storage. A friend helped Patricia Padauy sift through handwritten notes and tributes left to honor her slain son, Joaquin Oliver.
Objects from the memorial will be preserved in climate-controlled rooms for a future public exhibit on the anniversary of the Valentine's Day massacre.
Parkland Historical Society President Jeff Schwartz said the initial goal is to get the items indoors after more than a month of being exposed to sun, heat and rain. Flowers and plants will be composted; the other items will be catalogued and saved.
Just a few miles away, county and city officials announced a new organization to push for gun reform and to keep momentum going past Saturday's worldwide marches.
The group 17 For Change says its main goals are advocating for sensible gun laws, educating voters on gun reform and holding politicians accountable for how they vote and money they accept from the NRA and other gun lobbyists. The group spearheaded by the county's vice mayor includes a student panel with teens from various area schools.
Lori Alhadeff, whose daughter Alyssa was killed at Stoneman Douglas, read a haunting poem she'd written in her daughter's voice. Alhadeff has become an outspoken advocate for gun reform and helped successfully pass a new law in New Jersey. She's also leading a crusade to make schools safer, saying that should be the top priority ahead of state testing and even school grades.
"If one child dies on the school's watch, nothing else matters. That school has failed every student," she said.
Douglas juniors Adam Buchwald and Zach Hibshman are also asking every parent and grandparent in the nation to sign a contract promising to vote only for lawmakers who chose lives over guns and turn down money from the NRA. Saturday's marches were just the beginning, said 16-year-old Buchwald, one of the founders of Parents Promise To Kids.
"We are giving children a voice," Buchwald said. "If their parents sign this contract they will be heard in this election."
WASHINGTON —  Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens is calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for significant gun control legislation.
The 97-year-old Stevens says in an essay on The New York Times website that repeal would weaken the National Rifle Association's ability to "block constructive gun control legislation."
Stevens was on the losing end of a 2008 ruling in which the high court held that the Second Amendment gives individuals the right to own a gun for self-defense. He had previously called for changing the Second Amendment to permit gun control.
Stevens says the decision in that case, District of Columbia v. Heller, "has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power." Stevens retired from the court in 2010, after more than 35 years.
In his essay published Tuesday, Stevens talks about the "March for Our Lives" events on Saturday which drew crowds in cities across the country. Stevens said the demonstrations "reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society."
He said the support "is a clear sign to lawmakers to enact legislation prohibiting civilian ownership of semiautomatic weapons, increasing the minimum age to buy a gun from 18 to 21 years old, and establishing more comprehensive background checks on all purchasers of firearms."
But Stevens called on demonstrators to "seek more effective and more lasting reform."
"They should demand a repeal of the Second Amendment," he wrote.
Repealing the amendment would be extremely difficult. An amendment to the Constitution can only be proposed either by Congress with a two thirds vote in both houses or by a constitutional convention called for by two thirds of the state legislatures. The amendment then has to be approved by three quarters of the states.
Asked at a White House briefing whether President Donald Trump had any reaction to Stevens' comments, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the president and administration "still fully support the Second Amendment."
"We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals, not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights," she said.
The National Rifle Association also issued a statement in response to Stevens' essay.
"The men and women of the National Rifle Association, along with the majority of the American people and the Supreme Court, believe in the Second Amendment right to self-protection and we will unapologetically continue to fight to protect this fundamental freedom," the statement said.
WILMINGTON, Del —  U.S. gunmaker Remington Outdoor Co Inc won court approval on Tuesday to borrow an interim $75 million to sustain its business during its Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which will allow the company to carry out a $775 million debt-cutting deal.
Remington filed for bankruptcy on Sunday, a day after hundreds of thousands of Americans took to the streets to demand tougher gun laws to prevent school shootings like the one in Parkland, Florida in February that left 17 dead.
The Madison, North Carolina-based gunmaker was nearly out of cash when it filed for bankruptcy, prompting it to seek fresh financing from its lenders.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Shannon in Wilmington, Delaware said he was convinced the financing was necessary to avoid irreparable harm to the company and its creditors.
"A lack of disruption is key to preserving value," he said in approving the loan.
Remington said its bankruptcy will not impact its customers, suppliers or unsecured creditors, which would include those pursuing lawsuits. Families who lost loved ones in the 2012 Sandy Hook school shooting in Connecticut have been trying to hold the company liable because one of its assault rifles was used in the attack.
Little was said at the hearing about the student-led push for increased gun control. One of Remington's lawyers, Tyson Lomazow, briefly mentioned that the company was "operating in a difficult political climate" during his arguments in support of the company's request for fresh financing.
Remington is borrowing the money from its current lenders.
Sources told Reuters the banks were providing the loans to prevent the company from going out of business, leaving the banks with large losses and potentially spawning litigation.
Banks often sell loans as a borrower heads into bankruptcy. Sources told Reuters the hedge funds that usually buy such loans were reluctant given the pressure on the industry from gun control advocates after the Florida school shooting, and because the prices offered were not attractive.
Firearms makers have been stuck with a glut of weapons after the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, who says he is a strong advocate of gun ownership. Fears of restrictions on gun ownership tends to boost U.S. sales of weapons.
(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Susan Thomas)
PARIS —  French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe and senior figures of the French government attended the funerals in southern France Thursday for the four victims of last week's extremist gun rampage.
The ceremonies took place Thursday in the quiet Aude region that was the site of a deadly carjacking, gun spree and supermarket hostage-taking.
Philippe spoke to family of the victims and local residents in Trebes as the funeral convoys of Herve Sosna, Christian Medves and Jean Mazieres arrived — and their coffins were put on display in a large square.
Mazieres, 60, was killed by attacker Redouane Lakdim during the carjacking; Medves, 50, was shot in the supermarket, where he worked as a butcher; construction worker Sosna, 65, was a customer in the supermarket.
A private religious ceremony took place afterward for slain gendarme Arnaud Beltrame in nearby Carcassonne, and it will be followed by a burial later in the cemetery of Ferrals-les-Corbieres.
On Wednesday, France held a national homage to Beltrame, a colonel, who was given a posthumous Legion of Honor for his heroism in swapping himself for a hostage and potentially preventing further killings.
WASHINGTON —  Liberal billionaire philanthropist George Soros and his foundations did not pay protesters to rally against gun violence in the U.S. capital.
The Tea Party Commander Center blog claimed Soros paid protesters $300 each at the March for Our Lives in Washington on March 24. The piece included an image of an online advertisement that it said Soros organizers posted, but the ad is a freelance job listing for people to sell merchandise at a sister march in Los Angeles.
"Neither Mr. Soros nor the Open Society Foundations paid protesters," said Laura Silber, the foundations' chief communications officer.
Students organized the rallies after a Feb. 14 shooting that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Some survivors have called for a ban on high-capacity magazines and assault-type weapons, comprehensive background checks for gun buyers and a higher minimum age to purchase guns.
Soros is known for his support of American liberal and progressive causes. He is a frequent target of conspiracy theories.
___
This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Louisiana's attorney general plans to meet Tuesday with relatives of a black man who was shot and killed by a white Baton Rouge police officer to inform them whether his office will charge either of the two officers involved in the deadly struggle, according to two family lawyers.
Attorney General Jeff Landry's spokeswoman declined comment. However, attorneys L. Chris Stewart and Brandon DeCuir, who represent Alton Sterling's five children, said Landry is to meet Tuesday morning with Sterling's relatives and their lawyers in Baton Rouge.
Landry will provide an "update" on his office's investigation of Sterling's July 2016 shooting death during a news conference later Tuesday morning, the attorney general's office said.
The U.S. Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges in the case nearly 11 months ago.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but Lake didn't fire his gun.
Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, leading to protests at which nearly 200 people were arrested. The officers' body cameras and a store surveillance camera also recorded the encounter, but those videos haven't been released.
Federal authorities opened a civil rights investigation immediately after the shooting and released their findings in May 2017. They said Salamoni yelled that Sterling was reaching for a gun in his pocket before shooting him three times, and then fired three more shots into Sterling's back when he began to sit up and move. The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket.
The officers encountered Sterling after responding to a report of a man with a gun outside the Triple S Food Mart. The officers told Sterling to put his hands on the hood of a car and struggled with him when he didn't comply, the Justice Department said. Lake shocked Sterling with a stun gun before the officers wrestled him to the ground, according to federal investigators.
In June 2017, lawyers for Sterling's five children filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city of Baton Rouge, its police department and former police chief, and the two officers involved. Their suit alleges the shooting fit a pattern of racist behavior and excessive force by the Baton Rouge police. It also claims poor training and inadequate police procedures led to Sterling's death.
ATHENS —  The Greek government on Tuesday ordered the lifting of the suspension for Superleague matches after more than two weeks following the pitch invasion of a gun-carrying club president.
Matches were suspended on March 12, a day after Ivan Savvides, the president of PAOK, charged on to the pitch with a gun in his belt, to complain over a disallowed goal towards the end of a game against fellow title contenders AEK Athens.
Greece's Deputy Culture and Sports Minister Georgios Vassiliadis took the decision a day after Superleague clubs unanimously accepted changes to the league's disciplinary code and submitted proposals for improving the country's top soccer division.
"The Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport....has decided to immediately lift the suspension of the Superleague championship as well as the Greek Cup," the ministry said in a statement.
Greece had indefinitely suspended matches after Savvides was filmed wearing a gun holster as he strode on to the pitch to protest about a PAOK disallowed goal against AEK Athens.
The game was abandoned and later awarded to PAOK 1-0 following the controversial goal which had prompted the initial protests.
Savvides has since apologised for his actions but he and the club still face sanctions.
The Superleague disciplinary body is expected to announce its decisions on PAOK later this week, which could include a points reduction for the team and a stadium ban for its club boss.
All decisions, however, are not final and can be appealed.
Both PAOK and AEK are title contenders and any points reduction as part of PAOK's punishment could cost the northern Greek club the championship.
AEK are currently top on 54 points from 24 matches with PAOK in second place on 52 from 23 games.
World soccer's governing body FIFA has also warned Greece to act decisively in this matter or risk facing a potential national suspension.
A report on the state of Greek football by a monitoring group that visited Greece two weeks ago has been delivered to both FIFA and European body UEFA.
The European Club Association (ECA) has suspended PAOK as a member with immediate effect.
(Reporting by Karolos Grohmann,; Editing by Ed Osmond and Toby Davis)
NEW YORK —  Some of Wall Street's heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns as investment firms ask firearms makers what they are doing about gun violence.
The firms speak softly, but because they own trillions of dollars' worth of stock, their voices travel far. And they're now joining forces with some unusual allies, including smaller and untraditional investors. In this context, the investment fund BlackRock, which owns big stakes in three different gun makers, might end up working alongside a group of nuns.
Sister Judith Byron, the director and coordinator of the Northwest Coalition for Responsible Investment, says her group and BlackRock appear to have similar ideas when it comes to gun manufacturers and retailers. Following the killing of 17 students and teachers at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, funds like BlackRock started asking gun manufacturers what they are doing to reduce the risks of gun violence, and asking retailers how much they make from selling guns.
Byron says her group, a coalition of religious communities and health care systems, invested in firearms makers a decade ago and has been working on gun safety issues for years. In the last few months the coalition introduced resolutions pushing American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger and retailer Dick's Sporting Goods to give reports to investors about the steps they are taking to reduce gun violence.
"We're hoping we can engage these big investors and encourage them to vote for our resolutions," she says.
Some larger investors have similar views. The biggest public pension funds in the U.S., CalPERS, recently refused to sell its investments in companies that sell assault rifles. It says that by remaining an investor, it's been able to get those companies to make positive changes.
The nuns aren't protesters, and they don't carry props or signs to disrupt board meetings, although they sometimes work alongside groups that use those tactics. Byron says some of the shareholder meetings she's attended have been downright pleasant, with investors and board members thanking her for asking questions.
Support from investment firms was crucial to the coalition's big success last year when, after decades of work, it backed a successful resolution that required oil giant Exxon Mobil to disclose the effects climate change is having on its business.
Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, said companies are often reluctant to risk any sales in order to do the responsible thing. But it does sometimes happen, as when CVS stores stopped selling cigarettes in 2014. He said activists deserve most of the credit for getting the funds to speak out.
"BlackRock didn't wake up one morning and say, 'We are going to take a different approach to investing, it's the right thing to do,'" he said. "It's a reaction to the activists."
The top priority of firms like BlackRock, State Street and mutual fund company Vanguard is to make as much money as possible for their clients. But because they own so much stock, they can wield a lot of influence: They can support new directors who want to change the direction of the company and back proposals that change the way it operates.
BlackRock is a major shareholder in gun makers Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands, and Vista Outdoor Brands. About a week after the shooting in Parkland, BlackRock said it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy. The fund said it is looking into creating new investment funds for investors that exclude firearms makers and retailers, and if many funds and investors followed suit, that would affect the price of those stocks.
In a letter to BlackRock, American Outdoor Brands said it supports steps that will promote gun safety while protecting the rights of firearm owners. The company said it backs measures including improved background checks and improved support for people with mental illnesses, but said it's opposed to "politically motivated action" that won't improve public safety. Sturm Ruger did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
In other words, there are limits to the funds' power. They aren't choosy investors and won't dump the gun makers no matter what they say. That's because their main investment strategy to invest in huge numbers of companies, including every stock listed on the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
According to Todd Rosenbluth, CFRA's director of research into funds and exchange-traded funds, that means BlackRock and Vanguard don't have that much leverage compared to activist investors or hedge funds. Those investors can have more dramatic effects on individual companies because they can buy up the stock, run for seats on the board themselves, or threaten to sell the shares if they don't like the company's choices.
"They can use their wallet and sell the shares or they can pressure the companies and threaten to sell the shares if actions aren't taken," said Rosenbluth. So far, he said those investors aren't really getting involved in the debate.
Still, there have been changes: Dick's, Walmart, Kroger and L. L. Bean have all said they will no longer sell guns to shoppers under the age of 21. Rosenbluth said that has more to do with the ongoing national debate about gun safety and regulations than anything the investment firms have said, and he believes laws will ultimately have a larger effect.
But Byron, who also wants new gun laws, says she is encouraged by the response from corporate America.
"We see companies taking leadership roles in environmental and social issues, which is encouraging," said Byron, adding that as shareholders, "they're our companies. We own them."
FOGELSVILLE, Pa. —  A suspected shoplifter wearing a wig and lifelike mask shot once at a trooper in the parking lot of a Pennsylvania Walmart before the officer shot back and killed him, state police said Thursday.
Capt. Richard D'Ambrosio said store employees summoned police shortly after 9 p.m. Wednesday because a loss prevention officer thought the man may have been the same person who pulled a gun on Walmart employees in a neighboring county a few weeks earlier.
The suspect abandoned a full cart after seeing a trooper had entered the store in Fogelsville, about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southwest of Allentown, to investigate.
D'Ambrosio said the man in his late 20s ran from the officer and pulled a gun out of his waistband, firing it once without hitting anyone.
"The trooper was yelling the entire time, 'State police, stop, stop,' so he was given more than enough notice that he was being chased by a police officer," D'Ambrosio said.
The suspect got into his vehicle and pointed the handgun at the trooper about 45 feet (14 meters) away, who then shot him through the door and window, striking him about seven times and killing him, police said.
Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said his preliminary review suggests the shooting by police was justified.
Authorities said much of the encounter was captured on store security cameras, inside and outside the building.
A loaded Glock .40-caliber handgun was recovered from the man's lap inside the car.
There will be an autopsy on the suspect, who was not immediately identified.
The trooper, a four-year veteran who also was not named by authorities, was placed on administrative duty while the shooting is investigated.
"Obviously he's fired up a little bit, but he's doing OK," D'Ambrosio said.
D'Ambrosio said the earlier incident occurred at a Walmart in Schuylkill County in early March.
In that case, a man was confronted by a loss prevention office before he displayed a gun. The store employees stepped away from him, and he left.
D'Ambrosio said investigators are "pretty sure," but are not certain, that was the same man killed on Wednesday.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. —  A prosecutor in Virginia has ruled that a police officer was justified in fatally shooting an armed man who took several people hostage inside a bar last year.
The Daily Press reports Newport News Commonwealth's Attorney Howard Gwynn issued a report after investigating the April 2017 shooting of Caleb "C.J." Jackson Jr.
It says Jackson began acting erratically at the bar after hours, at one point taking out a pistol and waving it around. Then he fired several rounds, striking an employee.
Officers broke down the locked front door and barged in.
The report says, Sgt. Perry A. Bartels saw Jackson face him and raise a gun to his waist. Bartels fired three shots, striking and killing Jackson.
Jackson died at the scene. The employee who was shot survived.
___
Information from: Daily Press, http://www.dailypress.com/
SAN FRANCISCO —  Video from the body camera of a wounded policeman shows officers in a shootout inside a barbershop that left a gunman dead and five people injured.
Footage from the March 21 shootout was released Thursday night at a police town hall meeting.
The two-minute video from the injured officer shows the confrontation that took place inside the Amazon Barber Shop with 21-year-old Jehad Eid, who later died at a hospital.
Police told the town hall audience that officers received reports that Eid had been threatening his family, flashed a gun from under his jacket and tried to break into the garage of a home on Amazon Avenue.
Arriving officers were told that Eid had gone to the barbershop. The uniformed male officer wearing the camera and a female officer in plainclothes who didn't have a camera went inside.
They found Eid sitting inside but he stood up and shot at the officers, who fired back, police said.
Video from the uniformed officer's point of view shows him walking into the barbershop and then seconds later falling to the ground wounded. He fires his gun and reloads. The plainclothes officer also has pulled a gun and is crouched behind a barber's chair.
Sound only kicks in after the first shots have been fired.
An unseen man in the back of the shop can be heard repeatedly shouting, "I got kids, I got kids, I got kids here," referring to children who were reportedly eating pizza in the back of the building, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
Also heard is someone reporting "we have an officer down" and the plainclothes officer screaming: "Put your hands up" as the fallen Eid moves feebly.
There is blood and a shell casing on the floor by the officer, who was shot in the leg. He is later heard saying "I'm hit."
He crawls out the door with help from a sergeant and is asked where the suspect is.
"He's on the ground," he says.
Police said Eid fired nine shots from a .40-caliber handgun. The two officers fired 26 bullets and Eid was struck 18 times, police said.
Video from another officer who dashed into the shop after the shooting shows customers racing out and Eid bleeding while lying on his back behind a barber's chair. A third video , taken from a police dashboard camera, shows officers outside taking cover behind cars as the fusillade of shots rang out.
In addition to the officer, four people in the barbershop were struck or grazed by gunfire, including a teenage boy who was shot in the foot.
The shooting is under investigation by the police department and the district attorney's office.
(Reuters) - U.S. gunmaker Remington Outdoor Co has obtained commitments for nearly $300 million from its existing lenders, including some of the biggest U.S. banks, after new sources of funding dried up in the months leading up to its filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
During that time, the company's investment bank, Lazard Ltd, approached more than 30 possible lenders, according to court documents.
"The vast majority of lenders contacted, however, indicated  they were reluctant to provide financing to firearms manufacturers," said Lazard banker Ari Lefkovits in the papers.
Most of the banks providing the bankruptcy funding were lenders to Remington before its current financial problems, according to court records. Without the funds, Remington may have been forced to go out of business and the banks could have seen their investment crash in value.
The company and its investors have been under heightened scrutiny after 17 were killed in a school shooting in Parkland, Florida in February.
Remington filed for bankruptcy one day after hundreds of thousands of Americans took to the streets to demand tighter gun control measures.
Banks often sell troubled loans to hedge funds when a borrower is heading into bankruptcy, but one source told Reuters that even as the Remington loans were heavily discounted, buyers were scarce.
The company's bankruptcy lenders include Bank of America Corp, Wells Fargo & Co, JPMorgan Chase & Co and Deutsche Bank AG, according to court documents.
Remington disclosed the loan details in its Sunday bankruptcy filing, which the company said will allow it to cancel $775 million of debt and bring it out of Chapter 11 as soon as May.
Smaller banks Regions Financial Corporation, BB&T Corp, Synovus Financial Corp and Fifth Third Bancorp have also committed to help fund Remington's bankruptcy loans, court documents show. An affiliate of investment manager Franklin Templeton Investments, another lender, is also providing funds.
Bank of America, Regions, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and Synovus declined to comment.
BB&T declined to comment on its lending relationships. The bank said part of its consideration is to listen to its clients and stakeholders, who have a wide range of opinions.
“We’re deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” the bank said.
The others, along with Remington, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The company ran into trouble after borrowing to ramp up production in 2016 in anticipation of greater industry demand, according to court filings.
The expectation of higher sales was in part driven by fears of a Hillary Clinton presidency and tighter gun controls. With the election of Donald Trump, who has said he strongly supports gun ownership, the firearms industry was stuck with a glut of weapons and higher levels of debt.
Remington, which said in January it was nearly out of cash,  plans to tap the loans from the banks to help pay corporate expenses, including payroll, during its bankruptcy filing.
Remington's bondholders are also providing some of the bankruptcy loan and will receive a stake in the company when it exits bankruptcy.
Their identities were redacted in court documents.
The company also asked the court to seal the letters detailing the fees the lenders will earn from the loans, saying that the sums are commercially sensitive, according to filings in the bankruptcy court in Wilmington, Delaware.
The court records also showed that Remington's business faces new hurdles in the wake of the Florida shooting.
The company cited a risk to its business from restrictions placed on gun sales by retailers such Walmart Inc, Dick's Sporting Goods Inc and Kroger Co.
Walmart accounted for 11 percent of Remington sales in 2017, according to court documents.
Remington also said sales could be hurt by more government regulation, including enhanced background checks and a broader definition of "dealer" under current gun laws. Remington said if the 1994 federal assault weapons ban were re-enacted it would have an adverse effect on the business.
(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware and Jessica DiNapoli in New York)
(Reuters) - U.S. gunmaker Remington Outdoor Co has obtained commitments for nearly $300 million from its existing lenders, including some of the biggest U.S. banks, after new sources of funding dried up in the months leading up to its filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
During that time, the company's investment bank, Lazard Ltd, approached more than 30 possible lenders, according to court documents.
"The vast majority of lenders contacted, however, indicated  they were reluctant to provide financing to firearms manufacturers," said Lazard banker Ari Lefkovits in the papers.
Most of the banks providing the bankruptcy funding were lenders to Remington before its current financial problems, according to court records. Without the funds, Remington may have been forced to go out of business and the banks could have seen their investment crash in value.
The company and its investors have been under heightened scrutiny after 17 were killed in a school shooting in Parkland, Florida in February.
Remington filed for bankruptcy one day after hundreds of thousands of Americans took to the streets to demand tighter gun control measures.
Banks often sell troubled loans to hedge funds when a borrower is heading into bankruptcy, but one source told Reuters that even as the Remington loans were heavily discounted, buyers were scarce.
The company's bankruptcy lenders include Bank of America Corp, Wells Fargo & Co, JPMorgan Chase & Co and Deutsche Bank AG, according to court documents.
Remington disclosed the loan details in its Sunday bankruptcy filing, which the company said will allow it to cancel $775 million of debt and bring it out of Chapter 11 as soon as May.
Smaller banks Regions Financial Corporation, BB&T Corp, Synovus Financial Corp and Fifth Third Bancorp have also committed to help fund Remington's bankruptcy loans, court documents show. An affiliate of investment manager Franklin Templeton Investments, another lender, is also providing funds.
Bank of America, Regions, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and Synovus declined to comment.
BB&T declined to comment on its lending relationships. The bank said part of its consideration is to listen to its clients and stakeholders, who have a wide range of opinions.
“We’re deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” the bank said.
The others, along with Remington, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The company ran into trouble after borrowing to ramp up production in 2016 in anticipation of greater industry demand, according to court filings.
The expectation of higher sales was in part driven by fears of a Hillary Clinton presidency and tighter gun controls. With the election of Donald Trump, who has said he strongly supports gun ownership, the firearms industry was stuck with a glut of weapons and higher levels of debt.
Remington, which said in January it was nearly out of cash,  plans to tap the loans from the banks to help pay corporate expenses, including payroll, during its bankruptcy filing.
Remington's bondholders are also providing some of the bankruptcy loan and will receive a stake in the company when it exits bankruptcy.
Their identities were redacted in court documents.
The company also asked the court to seal the letters detailing the fees the lenders will earn from the loans, saying that the sums are commercially sensitive, according to filings in the bankruptcy court in Wilmington, Delaware.
The court records also showed that Remington's business faces new hurdles in the wake of the Florida shooting.
The company cited a risk to its business from restrictions placed on gun sales by retailers such Walmart Inc, Dick's Sporting Goods Inc and Kroger Co.
Walmart accounted for 11 percent of Remington sales in 2017, according to court documents.
Remington also said sales could be hurt by more government regulation, including enhanced background checks and a broader definition of "dealer" under current gun laws. Remington said if the 1994 federal assault weapons ban were re-enacted it would have an adverse effect on the business.
(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware and Jessica DiNapoli in New York)
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump is urging voters to back Republicans in the midterm elections, saying the party "must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court." But the Supreme Court, while shaped by political changes, is the unelected branch of government that can't be held by any party.
Trump was responding Wednesday to an op-ed column in The New York Times written by retired Justice John Paul Stevens, who called for the repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for gun control legislation.
A look at Trump's tweet and its accuracy:
TRUMP: "THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen, and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens, NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"
THE FACTS: Gun rights activists have seized on the column by Stevens, who was a registered Republican but a member of the court's liberal wing, as proof that Democrats are trying to undermine the Second Amendment guaranteeing the right to bear arms. Democratic leaders haven't called for repealing the amendment, which they say does not preclude reasonable gun control measures.
And unlike the elected branches of government, no party holds the Supreme Court. Presidents nominate justices, who must be confirmed by the Senate.
Until recently, party label and ideology did not always go hand in hand. Chief Justice Earl Warren was the bane of conservatives in the 1950s and 60s, but he was appointed by Republican President Dwight Eisenhower. Justice Byron White, appointed by Democratic President John F. Kennedy, was one of two dissenting votes against a woman's right to abortion in the landmark Roe v. Wade case. Stevens and David Souter, two of the dissenters in the court's 2008 decision in favor of gun rights, also were Republican appointees.
But Trump is right that Republican-nominated justices have formed a majority of the Supreme Court for nearly 50 years and, since Stevens' retirement in 2010, ideology and party have aligned. The five more conservative justices were appointed by Republicans, while the four more liberal justices were Democratic nominees.
That's why the stakes were so high after conservative Justice Antonin Scalia died in 2016. If President Barack Obama's nominee, Merrick Garland, had been confirmed, it would have flipped the ideological and partisan majority of the court.
Republican senators kept the seat open and, when Trump unexpectedly won election in 2016, were delighted to confirm Trump's nominee, Neil Gorsuch, over Democratic objections. Trump has pointed to his nomination of Gorsuch and other federal judges as among his biggest accomplishments.
Republicans would have the opportunity to cement control of the court if Justice Anthony Kennedy — the most moderate of the conservatives — or one of the older more liberal justices, Stephen Breyer or Ruth Bader Ginsburg, were to retire with Trump in office and Republicans in control of the Senate.
Recently changed Senate rules make it relatively easy for the president to get his pick confirmed since Trump's fellow Republicans control the Senate and Democrats have little ability to delay a nomination.
The worry for Trump is that Republicans have the barest Senate majority and could lose control of the chamber in the November elections. Trump nominees would find it considerably more difficult to be confirmed in a Senate run by Democrats still seething over the Republican refusal to consider Obama's Garland nomination.
___
Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
NEW YORK —  Sarah Jessica Parker has endorsed her "Sex and the City" castmate Cynthia Nixon's run for governor of New York.
Parker endorsed Nixon on Instagram on Thursday, calling her "my sister on and off screen."
Nixon is challenging incumbent Gov. Andrew Cuomo for the Democratic nomination.
Nixon has been active on issues including LGBT rights and public education funding. She has called Cuomo "Andrew the bully" and accused him of giving "massive tax breaks to corporations."
Cuomo's campaign has pointed to his achievements, including legalizing gay marriage, tightening gun restrictions and raising the state's minimum wage.
"Sex and the City" star Kristin Davis also has endorsed Nixon.
The three women plus Kim Cattrall starred in the HBO show from 1998 to 2004 and in two subsequent "Sex and the City" films.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police (all times local):
10 p.m.
About 200 protesters have gathered in Sacramento to condemn the police shooting of an unarmed black man.
Demonstrators gathered Friday night at City Hall, chanting the names of black men who have died in police shootings around the country.
It's the fourth day in a series of angry but peaceful protests following the March 18 shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark by Sacramento police.
Earlier in the day, a pathologist hired by attorneys for Clark's family said an autopsy found he was shot eight times — including seven times in the back.
Police have said Clark was facing officers, who thought he had a gun.
___
11:37 a.m.
A pathologist hired by attorneys for the family of an unarmed man killed by Sacramento police says an independent autopsy shows Stephon Clark was shot seven times from behind and took up to 10 minutes to die.
Dr. Bennet Omalu told reporters Friday that Clark was shot in the right back side of the neck and had a cluster of wounds in the upper right side of his back.
The pathologist says any one of those wounds would have been fatal, and death would have taken three to 10 minutes.
Police have said Clark was facing and advancing toward officers who thought he had a gun when they fired, and then could not approach Clark for five minutes.
The pathologist says Clark also suffered an eighth gunshot wound to the thigh that occurred as he was falling or already on the ground.
___
11:30 a.m.
The brother of an unarmed black man killed by police is helping diffuse tension in California's capital city by asking protesters not to keep disrupting a downtown NBA arena.
Protesters heeded the calls by Stevante Clark on Thursday not to block fans from entering the Sacramento Kings arena as they had for two previous games. They instead protested for several hours on downtown streets nearby, blocking cars during rush hour.
Stevante Clark's calls came just hours after an emotional display at the funeral for his 22-year-old brother, Stephon Clark. He was killed March 18 by police responding to a call of someone breaking car windows. The police say officers thought Stephon Clark had a gun, but he only had a cellphone.
The family's attorney, Ben Crump, will on Friday release results of an independent autopsy.
COLUMBIA, S.C. —  A clown is running for Congress. That's not a joke.
Steve Lough is wearing his red nose with pride, appearing in clown makeup on his campaign website as he runs against four others in South Carolina's Democratic primary for the seat held by GOP Rep. Ralph Norman.
Lough was a professional clown with Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey Circus. Now The State newspaper reports that he's for reforming gun laws and providing universal access to health care.
Lough is a native of Camden, South Carolina, and a graduate of both Dartmouth and the Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey Clown College. He also volunteered for the presidential campaigns of Barack Obama and Bernie Sanders.
His website is ClownForCongress.com , and his campaign slogan is "Aim high! Vote Lough!"
___
Information from: The State, http://www.thestate.com
DECATUR, Ga. —  A Georgia elementary school teacher has been charged with murder in the gang-related slaying of two children in 2016.
WSB-TV says that based in part on a police sketch, police believe 26-year-old Michael De'Sean White was at the scene of the killings of 11-year-old Tatiyana Coates and 15-year-old Daveon Coates. Perpetrators shot the children after breaking into their home in search of another teen who wasn't there.
Clayton County Police Maj. Tina Daniel says at least one other person also has been arrested, and the agency is still waiting on ballistics tests on a gun recovered from a shootout in Tennessee the next day.
WSB-TV says White was arrested Friday and has been removed from Toney Elementary School. It's unclear if he has a lawyer.
___
Information from: WSB-TV, http://www.wsbtv.com/index.html
NEW YORK —  They have walked out, marched and demanded action across America to stop gun violence. But it's far from certain that the young people behind the "March for Our Lives" movement will be a political force at the ballot box this fall.
Republicans are skeptical. Democrats are hopeful. And outside groups that favor gun control aren't taking any chances.
Organizations aligned with Democrats on gun control are spending tens of millions of dollars to ensure that young voters' passion and enthusiasm doesn't fade before the November midterm elections, when the Republican Party's control of Congress will be put to the test.
"Other people look at those young people and think organizing them makes no sense because they don't vote," said Tom Steyer, the billionaire hedge-fund magnate-turned-liberal activist who has committed at least $31 million this year to what is believed to be the largest youth vote organizing effort in American history. "We really believe in this generation."
Past voting patterns show how much work Steyer and others have ahead of them. Just 15 percent of eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 20 cast ballots in the last midterm election.
Still, the mobilization of young people following last month's shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school has raised the prospect of a shift that could re-shape the American political landscape this fall — and perhaps for much longer.
Student leaders from Parkland have already succeeded in keeping the gun debate from quickly fading, as is often the case after mass shootings, though that hasn't resulted in any significant congressional action. Hundreds of thousands of people, many of them in high school, participated in protest marches across the country Saturday. New waves of protests are already being planned for next month.
Their efforts are being aided by powerful groups that favor stricter gun laws. Everytown for Gun Safety, an organization backed by billionaire Michael Bloomberg, expects to spend more money shaping the 2018 midterms than any other election — and much of it on youth engagement, said chief operating officer Matt McTighe.
The organization already spent more than $1 million to help student organizers participate in last weekend's marches. They're now focused on helping high school and college students nationwide organize their own "Students Demand Action" groups, a spinoff of the organization's "Mom's Demand Action" against gun violence chapters. Everytown also helped young people establish the non-profit group that coordinated the weekend marches, while in some cases paying for nuts-and-bolts items like sound systems and stages.
"They've got the energy. They've got the passion. They don't necessarily have the resources or the policy expertise," McTighe said. "We're going to be investing heavily in these students and making sure they engage in politics in every race and every single district across the country."
Additionally, groups backed by Steyer, Bloomberg and former Rep. Gabby Giffords will launch nationwide voter drives on high school campuses in the coming weeks. The operation, according to Giffords' executive director Peter Ambler, will especially target "districts and states where new young voters can have the most impact." Giffords' group, like its allies, will also devote significant resources to sophisticated get-out-the-vote operations targeting young voters.
"They're very powerful right now," Ambler said. "I'm very excited to see what they do with that power."
Republican strategists suggest that the youth movement could prove particularly troubling for their candidates in America's suburbs, where dozens of vulnerable GOP House incumbents already face a wave of Democratic enthusiasm and skepticism from moderate Republicans dissatisfied with President Donald Trump's job performance.
It's less clear whether a surge in youth turnout would sting Republican candidates in Senate races playing out in rural states like North Dakota and West Virginia, where a fight over gun control could motivate Trump's most passionate supporters as well.
Republicans are skeptical that young voters, who typically favor Democratic candidates by large margins, will stay interested.
"Motivation is fleeting," said Republican strategist Chris Wilson.
While equally skeptical about the short-term impact, Republican pollster Frank Luntz warned his party that a mass migration of young voters to the Democratic Party could endanger GOP candidates for years to come.
"There are a lot of dark clouds ahead for Republicans," Luntz said. "The impact of the youth vote isn't immediate, but it could well have the greatest impact of all."
Young voters, with few exceptions, have struggled to maintain interest in politics over the last half century.
In 1972, when the voting age was first lowered to 18, nearly 56 percent of eligible 18- to 20-year-olds voted, according to an analysis by the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University. Participation has trended downward ever since, with one exception being President Barack Obama's first presidential election.
But in the first midterm election of Obama's presidency, participation rates for 18- to-20-year-old voters regressed to just 18 percent.
"This energy we're seeing right now is in March. The election is seven months away. It takes a lot to keep up this enthusiasm," said Kei Kawashima-Ginsberg, director of the Tufts center.
She suggested that interest groups and political campaigns could help motivate young people, as Obama did in 2008, but young voters are more likely to be influenced by people they encounter at home or school.
It's also unclear whether issues alone, even one as powerful as gun violence, can lead to lasting political change. Kawashima-Ginsberg's center studied the impact of high-profile ballot issues that might appeal to young voters — the legalization of marijuana and same-sex marriage — in past elections, finding that such social issues alone typically had little impact.
Steyer, for his part, is prepared to spend whatever it takes to ensure young voters don't get distracted. His $31 million pledge, he said, is simply "the floor" of what he's prepared to spend this year.
"What we're trying to do is organize as well as possible to make sure that they get a chance to raise their voices," he said, "but also to make sure their votes are counted on Nov. 6."
_
NEW YORK —  Despite their enthusiasm now, it's far from certain that the young people behind the exploding "March for Our Lives" movement will be a political force at the ballot box this fall.
Republicans are skeptical. Democrats are hopeful. And organizations that favor gun control are spending tens of millions of dollars to ensure that young people don't get distracted before November's midterm elections.
If history is any guide, keeping young voters engaged for the next seven months will be no small task. Just 15 percent of eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 20 cast ballots in the last midterm election.
If fully engaged, young voters could re-shape the American political landscape this fall — and perhaps for much longer.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Autopsy findings by a pathologist hired by the family of Stephon Clark call into question the Sacramento Police Department's assertion that Clark was facing the two officers and advancing toward them when they opened fire and killed him.
Video from Sacramento police officers' body cameras and a Sheriff's Department helicopter circling overhead show Clark's final moments but don't definitively answer the many questions that have arisen since the March 18 shooting.
Police said they were responding to reports that a man dressed in a hooded sweatshirt was breaking car windows. The helicopter video begins with a figure scaling a backyard fence.
"He just broke the window, running south, running to the south," says a deputy in the helicopter. The video does not show the figure break a window but police say a neighbor's sliding glass door was broken.
The suspect then approaches a vehicle parked alongside Clark's grandparents' house and appears to look inside.
The aerial video shows two police officers running up to the side of the house, one with an arm extended holding a handgun, as the man later determined to be Clark disappears from view into the backyard.
The two officers can be seen coming around the back corner of the house then retreating to the side of the home.
"Show me your hands — gun!" one officer yells, according to the body camera footage . It is dark and the body cameras briefly show the backyard with portions illuminated by the officers' flashlights, but Clark is not clearly visible in the body camera videos.
"Gun, gun, gun," one of the officers yells on body camera video before they begin shooting.
As Clark comes back into view from the circling helicopter, he appears to be moving toward the officers as the first visible muzzle flash is seen. He falls forward and to the side, catches himself on his outstretched arms and hands, crawls forward briefly then collapses on top of his hands.
It is not clear when he was first hit or if officers fired before the first visible muzzle flash, but the video shows the officers continue to shoot as Clark lies face down unmoving.
Dr. Bennet Omalu, the pathologist hired by Clark's family, watched the helicopter video after conducting his autopsy and said the video is consistent with his findings.
Omalu said Clark was likely facing the house when he was first shot, with the bullet hitting him on the back left side of his torso. The propulsion of the bullet would have been enough to spin his body around so his back was facing the officers, Omalu said, before being hit by subsequent bullets that dropped him to the ground.
He was then shot in the leg, either as he fell or while on the ground, Omalu said.
The 20 shots were fired in about five seconds and Clark makes no discernable movement once the shooting stops.
Omalu said any of the six bullets that hit Clark in the back and one in the neck could have been the fatal shot. An eighth bullet went into Clark's thigh.
Omalu said Clark's death was not instantaneous and likely took between three and 10 minutes. Police approached the body after about five minutes.
NEW YORK —  Despite their enthusiasm now, it's far from certain that the young people behind the exploding "March for Our Lives" movement will be a political force at the ballot box this fall.
Republicans are skeptical. Democrats are hopeful. And organizations that favor gun control are spending tens of millions of dollars to ensure that young people don't get distracted before November's midterm elections.
If history is any guide, keeping young voters engaged for the next seven months will be no small task. Just 15 percent of eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 20 cast ballots in the last midterm election.
If fully engaged, young voters could re-shape the American political landscape this fall — and perhaps for much longer.
MIAMI —  Fox News personality Laura Ingraham got a quick reaction from her advertisers after she criticized one of the Florida school shooting survivors on social media. Some of them dropped her.
Ingraham, tweeted, "David Hogg Rejected By Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it."
Hogg, a student who survived the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, tweeted a list of a dozen advertisers and encouraged followers to call them and ask them to drop Ingraham. Hogg has faced intense criticism from right-wing conservatives and gun advocates who have falsely called him a crisis actor following the Valentine's Day shooting in Parkland that killed 17.
Companies such as Nestle, Wayfair, TripAdvisor and Rachel Ray's dog food Nutrish all said they are removing their support from Ingraham.
MONTGOMERY, Ala. —  Authorities say a police officer in Alabama has fatally shot a woman driving a car that was dragging another officer.
Montgomery police Capt. Regina Duckett tells news outlets that two officers responding to a stolen vehicle call late Tuesday morning approached the car, at which point it took off, dragging one of the officers underneath. The second officer pulled a gun and fired at the driver, who died from her injuries.
The woman hasn't been identified.
The dragged officer was hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries and later released. Both officers have been placed on administrative leave in accordance with protocol, and Alabama's State Bureau of Investigation is investigating.
Few other details have been released.
ASHEVILLE, N.C. —  A North Carolina judge has ruled all video in the case of a white police officer accused of using excessive force against a black man accused of jaywalking should be released.
Local news outlets report Buncombe County Superior Court Judge Mark Powell said Monday it was in the public interest for footage captured by police body cameras to be made public. Powell set an April 2 release date.
District Attorney Todd Williams said the release would threaten his ability to prosecute the case.
Video footage captures former Asheville Police Officer Christopher Hickman ordering Johnnie Jermaine Rush to put his hands behind his back. It shows Hickman punching Rush's head and using a stun gun while holding him to the ground last Aug. 25.
Hickman was later charged with felony assault.
Rocker Ted Nugent says the Florida students calling for gun control have "no soul" and are "mushy brained children."
The 69-year-old made the comments Friday while defending the National Rifle Association as a guest on the Joe Pags show, a nationally syndicated conservative radio program.
Nugent, a longtime member of the NRA's board of directors, said survivors of the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are wrong to blame the NRA and its members for mass shootings.
"These poor children, I'm afraid to say, it hurts me to say, but the evidence is irrefutable: They have no soul," Nugent said. He added that the gun control measures the students support amount to "spiritual suicide" and "will cause more death and mayhem."
A representative for Nugent did not respond to a request for comment on Saturday.
Some Parkland students responded on social media and demanded an apology.
"If only he saw all the tears. If only he had to look into the eyes I've looked into. If only he saw what this did to all of us," junior Cameron Kasky said on Twitter. "And here the NRA is, receiving more fear-based donations than ever. Talk about 'no soul.' This guy better apologize. Seriously."
Senior Kyra Parrow said it's funny that the NRA rails against bullying while Nugent was "being a 5 year old acting like a bully" to her and her classmates.
Nugent made the comments the same day several advertisers dropped Fox News personality Laura Ingraham after she mocked a survivor of the Parkland shooting online.
Ingraham said Friday she will take a weeklong "Easter break" with her children while guest hosts fill in on her show, "The Ingraham Angle."
She drew backlash Wednesday when she shared an article on Twitter saying student David Hogg had been rejected by four colleges and was whining about it. She later apologized and said Hogg should be proud of his grades.
KABUL, Afghanistan —  A suicide bomber killed a provincial council member in northeast Kunar province, while a daylong gun battle in neighboring Badakhshan province left four civilians dead and another eight wounded, Afghan officials said Friday.
Kunar provincial council member Shahwali Hemat was on his way to a local cemetery to attend a funeral Friday when a suicide bomber approached him and exploded his device, Kunar Police Chief spokesman Farid Dihqan told The Associated Press. A second person was also killed in the explosion and another one was wounded. No one immediately took responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban are active in Kunar province.
Also hiding in Kunar province's towering mountains are members of Pakistan's militant Tehrik-e-Taliban, who fled a Pakistan military operation in the Swat Valley and found refuge in Kunar's rugged terrain. Among the Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan's Kunar province is Mullah Fazlullah, the Taliban leader who is believed to have masterminded the attack on Pakistan's Malala Yousafzai, the young Nobel laureate and champion of girls' education worldwide. Yousafzai is in Pakistan on her first visit home since the shooting in 2012.
Pakistan and Afghanistan routinely accuse each other of harboring the other's militant enemies.
Also on Friday, Asadullah Mujadedi, a district police chief in northern Badakhshan Province, said four civilians were killed and another eight wounded during a gun battle between Afghan security forces and the Taliban.
Mujadedi said the battle broke out after security forces launched a clean-up operation in Badakhshan's Jurm district.
Armed with mortars and machine guns, the Taliban fired from inside houses in a blistering battle that lasted throughout the day Thursday.
A statement from the Taliban on Friday claimed significantly more civilians were killed in the firefight and blamed the government for their deaths.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Kept under wraps for nearly two years, body camera footage of a policeman killing Alton Sterling shows the officer threatening to shoot the man and screaming profanities before firing the fatal shots that stoked protests across the nation.
The videos, released Friday as Baton Rouge's police chief announced the firing of the white officer who shot Sterling six times, came days after the state attorney general declined to bring criminal charges against the two officers involved in the incident.
The tapes show a police encounter that rapidly turned violent, descending into death threats, a football-style tackle and finally, the killing of a 37-year black man who was selling homemade CDs outside a convenience store in Louisiana's capital city.
Two cellphone videos of the incident quickly spread on social media after the shooting, but the new footage show the clearest and most complete picture of what happened that night.
In July 2016, Officers Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II approached Sterling in the parking lot of the Triple S Food Mart and ordered him to put his hands on the hood of a nearby car.
As Sterling asks what he has done, the situation breaks down.
"Put your hands on the car or I'm going to shoot you in your (expletive) head," an officer, apparently Salamoni, is heard saying. A gun is pointed at the back of Sterling's head as the officer's orders rise into a shout.
When Sterling complains that the officers are hurting him, one officer tells the other to use a Taser on him and an electric buzzing can then be heard. The officer said to be Salamoni then runs at Sterling, tackling him as the camera footage blurs with motion.
As the men are on the ground, someone yells "he's got a gun." Shots ring out. Salamoni had fired six bullets into Sterling.
The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.
L. Chris Stewart, an attorney representing two of Sterling's children, said the newly released video footage shows a "truth" experienced by many black men during encounters police officers.
"What that truth is, is the silent complaint — or the loud one — of every black person in the inner city who has to deal with an officer like Blane Salamoni," he said. "You can clearly see there was no value placed on Alton Sterling's life by Blane Salamoni."
The video then shows Sterling lying in the parking lot, blood pooling on his chest, his arms moving slightly. As more police begin to arrive, the officer said to be Salamoni asks them to start roping off the area but tells them to leave Sterling where he lies. The officer is heard in the footage calling Sterling stupid.
Salamoni's attorney, John McLindon, said he will appeal his client's firing to a civil service board. McLindon said he didn't think Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul gave his client a fair hearing during a closed-door meeting Thursday night.
"He did what he was trained to do," McLindon said of his client.
Salamoni told an internal affairs investigator in September 2016 that he cursed at Sterling to send a message that the officers weren't "playing," according to a report released Friday. Salamoni also said he saw Sterling reach for and hold a gun in his pants pocket right before he shot him during their struggle on the ground.
Trying to explain why he swore at Sterling after the shooting, Salamoni said "he was so mad at Sterling for making him kill him and for trying to kill us," the report says.
Lake, who did not fire his gun but helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, was suspended for three days. Lake's attorney, Kyle Kershaw, said his client wants to return to his patrol job in Baton Rouge after his brief suspension.
The police chief said he fired Salamoni for violating department policies on use of force and "command of temper." He suspended Lake for violating only the latter policy. The pair had been on paid administrative leave since the shooting.
The Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges last May.
For nearly two years, Sterling's family and many other Baton Rouge residents have called on authorities to release all of the video footage of the shooting. The shock of finally seeing and hearing it overwhelmed Andrika Williams, the mother of three of Sterling's children. Williams told her attorney, Michael Adams, that she had an anxiety attack and collapsed when she saw one of the newly released videos in a friend's social media post as she walking in her neighborhood Friday evening.
"Every time they see this footage, they relive this. It's horrible to watch," Adams said.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Kept under wraps for nearly two years, body camera footage of a policeman killing Alton Sterling shows the officer threatening to shoot the man and screaming profanities before firing the fatal shots that stoked protests across the nation.
The videos, released Friday as Baton Rouge's police chief announced the firing of the white officer who shot Sterling six times, came days after the state attorney general declined to bring criminal charges against the two officers involved in the incident.
The tapes show a police encounter that rapidly turned violent, descending into death threats, a football-style tackle and finally, the killing of a 37-year black man who was selling homemade CDs outside a convenience store in Louisiana's capital city.
Two cellphone videos of the incident quickly spread on social media after the shooting, but the new footage show the clearest and most complete picture of what happened that night.
In July 2016, Officers Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II approached Sterling in the parking lot of the Triple S Food Mart and ordered him to put his hands on the hood of a nearby car.
As Sterling asks what he has done, the situation breaks down.
"Put your hands on the car or I'm going to shoot you in your (expletive) head," an officer, apparently Salamoni, is heard saying. A gun is pointed at the back of Sterling's head as the officer's orders rise into a shout.
When Sterling complains that the officers are hurting him, one officer tells the other to use a Taser on him and an electric buzzing can then be heard. The officer said to be Salamoni then runs at Sterling, tackling him as the camera footage blurs with motion.
As the men are on the ground, someone yells "he's got a gun." Shots ring out. Salamoni had fired six bullets into Sterling.
The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.
L. Chris Stewart, an attorney representing two of Sterling's children, said the newly released video footage shows a "truth" experienced by many black men during encounters police officers.
"What that truth is, is the silent complaint — or the loud one — of every black person in the inner city who has to deal with an officer like Blane Salamoni," he said. "You can clearly see there was no value placed on Alton Sterling's life by Blane Salamoni."
The video then shows Sterling lying in the parking lot, blood pooling on his chest, his arms moving slightly. As more police begin to arrive, the officer said to be Salamoni asks them to start roping off the area but tells them to leave Sterling where he lies. The officer is heard in the footage calling Sterling stupid.
Salamoni's attorney, John McLindon, said he will appeal his client's firing to a civil service board. McLindon said he didn't think Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul gave his client a fair hearing during a closed-door meeting Thursday night.
"He did what he was trained to do," McLindon said of his client.
Salamoni told an internal affairs investigator in September 2016 that he cursed at Sterling to send a message that the officers weren't "playing," according to a report released Friday. Salamoni also said he saw Sterling reach for and hold a gun in his pants pocket right before he shot him during their struggle on the ground.
Trying to explain why he swore at Sterling after the shooting, Salamoni said "he was so mad at Sterling for making him kill him and for trying to kill us," the report says.
Lake, who did not fire his gun but helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, was suspended for three days. Lake's attorney, Kyle Kershaw, said his client wants to return to his patrol job in Baton Rouge after his brief suspension.
The police chief said he fired Salamoni for violating department policies on use of force and "command of temper." He suspended Lake for violating only the latter policy. The pair had been on paid administrative leave since the shooting.
The Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges last May.
For nearly two years, Sterling's family and many other Baton Rouge residents have called on authorities to release all of the video footage of the shooting. The shock of finally seeing and hearing it overwhelmed Andrika Williams, the mother of three of Sterling's children. Williams told her attorney, Michael Adams, that she had an anxiety attack and collapsed when she saw one of the newly released videos in a friend's social media post as she walking in her neighborhood Friday evening.
"Every time they see this footage, they relive this. It's horrible to watch," Adams said.
WASHINGTON —  A U.S. senator asked the National Rifle Association on Tuesday to turn over detailed internal records about foreign funding it received in the past three years and how it spent that money, including whether any of it went toward influencing American elections, according to a copy of the letter delivered to the powerful gun group's top lawyer.
Sen. Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, released his request a week after NRA general counsel John Frazer acknowledged that the tax-exempt nonprofit receive some foreign funding.
Frazer said in a March 19 letter to Wyden's office that while some of that money was transferred between NRA accounts, none of it has gone toward influencing U.S. elections or political campaigns.
Under U.S. law, foreign entities aren't allowed to influence U.S. elections.
Wyden also asked for more information, including internal metrics, about foreign money used by the NRA for media campaigns or other efforts that were consumed by the public.
The back-and-forth comes after McClatchy, citing anonymous sources, reported in January that federal investigators were probing whether an ally of Russia's president gave to the group to support Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.
That prompted a left-leaning advocacy group to file a complaint with the Federal Election Commission.
The Associated Press has not confirmed the McClatchy report.
The NRA did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment Tuesday on Wyden's letter. In his response to Wyden last week, Frazer said the NRA "has strong policies and practices to ensure that we raise and spend our funds within the bounds of the law."
Trump campaigned as an advocate for gun owners' rights and the group poured some $30 million into his campaign.
Congressional investigators determined that Donald Trump Jr. met with a Russian government official at the group's 2016 annual meeting but "found no evidence that the two discussed the U.S. presidential election," according to the House Intelligence Committee's report.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The Latest on a fired Florida police officer trying to get manslaughter and attempted murder charges against him thrown out (all times local):
5:45 p.m.
A judge has postponed a hearing to decide whether a fired police officer charged with fatally shooting a stranded black motorist should go to trial.
Circuit Judge Samantha Schosberg Feuer late Tuesday postponed former Palm Beach Gardens Officer Nouman Raja's "stand your ground" hearing until May. It had been scheduled to begin Wednesday.
Raja is charged with manslaughter and attempted murder for the October 2015 shooting of 31-year-old Corey Jones.
Raja says Jones pulled a gun on him while he worked undercover in plainclothes. Prosecutors say Raja's negligence made Jones think he was a robber. Jones had a concealed weapons permit and was legally armed.
If the judge lets the case proceed, the 40-year-old Raja is scheduled to go on trial in July. He could get a life sentence.
___
4:10 p.m.
A Florida judge will decide whether a fired police officer charged with manslaughter should go on trial for shooting a stranded black motorist.
Prosecutors and Nouman Raja's attorneys are scheduled to square off Wednesday and Thursday before Circuit Judge Samantha Schosberg Feuer. She will decide whether the former Palm Beach Gardens officer should face trial for the 2015 shooting of 31-year-old Corey Jones.
Raja says Jones pulled a gun on him while he worked undercover in plainclothes. Prosecutors say Raja's negligence made Jones think he was a robber. Jones had a concealed weapons permit and was legally armed.
If the judge lets the case proceed, the 40-year-old Raja is scheduled to go on trial in July. He could get a life sentence.
(Reuters) - A self-inflicted gunshot wound, not a bullet fired by a sheriff's deputy, killed a 17-year-old who had just shot another student at a Maryland high school last week, authorities have said.
Austin Rollins, a student at Great Mills High School, shot Jaelynn Willey, 16, with his father's handgun in a hallway at the school last Tuesday, according to the St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office.
Willey, who had been in a relationship with Rollins that had recently ended, died days later.
About three minutes after Rollins shot Willey, sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill fired one round at him, striking his gun. At the same time, Rollins shot himself in the head, the sheriff said in a brief statement on Monday.
Rollins was wounded and died at a hospital. Gaskill was unharmed.
Desmond Barnes, a 14-year-old student, was struck in the leg by the same bullet that hit Willey, the sheriff said. Barnes was treated at a hospital and released a day after the shooting.
Details of the shooting emerged after hundreds of thousands of people marched over the weekend to demand the U.S. government tighten gun laws.
Led by survivors of a Florida high school shooting in February that claimed 17 lives, the marchers called on lawmakers and President Donald Trump to confront the issue after decades of shooting sprees at U.S. schools and colleges .
(Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee, editing by Larry King)
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Sacramento police shot Stephon Clark seven times from behind, according to autopsy results released Friday by a pathologist hired by Clark's family, a finding that calls into question the department's assertion the 22-year-old black man was facing officers and moving toward them when he was killed.
Dr. Bennet Omalu also determined Clark took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid.
"The proposition that has been presented that he was assailing the officers, meaning he was facing the officers, is inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence," Omalu said at a news conference with family attorney Benjamin Crump.
He said it was not clear if Clark would have survived had he gotten immediate medical attention.
Sacramento police responded with a brief statement that said the department had not yet received an official autopsy report from the Sacramento County coroner's office. It said the coroner's death investigation is independent from the investigation being conducted by police and the state Department of Justice.
A day after the March 18 shooting, police distributed a press release that said the officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."
Police video of the shooting doesn't clearly capture all that happened after Clark ran into his grandmother's backyard. He initially moved toward the officers, who are peeking out from behind a corner of the house, but it's not clear he's facing them or that he knows they are there when they open fire after shouting "gun, gun, gun."
After 20 shots, officers call to him, apparently believing he might still be alive and armed. They eventually approach and find no gun, just a cellphone.
The shooting has produced almost daily angry but peaceful protests in the downtown area of California's capital city.
About 200 protesters gathered Friday night at City Hall. They shouted "Hands up, Don't Shoot!" and Stand Up, Fight Back."
They also chanted the names of young black men who have been killed by police around the country.
Earlier, several hundred black residents gathered at a South Sacramento church for a community meeting focused on supporting black youth in the city.
Clark's death was highlighted, however, with Sacramento Kings player Garrett Temple telling the crowd that Clark "could have been any of us."
Teammate Vice Carter and former Kings player Doug Christie also attended.
Gov. Jerry Brown issued his first statement on the situation earlier Friday, calling it a tragic death that "raises a number of very serious questions and I support the California Attorney General's independent oversight of the investigation."
Police were called to the South Sacramento neighborhood on March 18 after a neighbor reported someone was breaking car windows. A police helicopter identified a suspect, who ran as police on the ground gave chase.
The helicopter video shows the two officers at the corner of Clark's grandmother's house and Clark on the backyard patio. He moves toward the officers' position as they peer around the corner and open fire.
Clark staggers sideways and falls on his stomach as officers continue shooting.
Omalu, whose study of a degenerative brain condition in football players prompted the NFL to adopt new safety rules designed to prevent concussions, said any of the six bullets that hit Clark in the back and one in the neck could have been the fatal shot. An eighth bullet went into Clark's thigh.
The autopsy was released a day after an emotional funeral service.  The Rev. Al Sharpton delivered the eulogy and praised demonstrators for their restraint and urged them to follow the lead of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and his advocacy of nonviolent protest.
Later in the day, police in riot gear stood waiting outside the Golden 1 Center as fans wove through barricades and fencing to enter a Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game. Twice since the shooting, demonstrators had blocked thousands of fans from entering the area.
But protesters never came to the arena Thursday night, heeding calls from Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, and Black Lives Matter organizers to avoid the arena.
Instead, they blocked rush hour traffic on nearby downtown streets.
The Kings and their owner have supported the family.
___
Associated Press reporters Kathleen Ronayne and Haven Daley in Sacramento and John Antczak and Brian Melley in Los Angeles contributed.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. —  A white North Carolina police officer shot and killed a black passenger who refused orders not to reach for a gun after a late-night traffic stop led to a physical struggle, authorities said Saturday.
The shooting happened after Officer D.E. McGuire stopped a car containing two men and a woman about 10:30 p.m. Friday during a routine patrol northeast of downtown, according to a Winston-Salem Police Department news release.
Edward Van McCrae, 60, was in the rear seat and began making suspicious movements, police say. McGuire told McCrae to stop reaching for concealed areas of the vehicle, but McCrae continued, according to the news release.
"After being removed from the vehicle, Mr. McCrae physically struggled with Officer McGuire and refused multiple verbal commands by Officer McGuire to 'stop reaching,'" the news release said. "As the struggle continued, a handgun became visible to Officer McGuire."
McGuire shot and killed McCrae when he refused commands not to reach for the gun, according to the release. A police report characterizes the exchange as an assault on the officer with a firearm.
The State Bureau of Investigation has been brought in to investigate the shooting, which happened in a residential area of modest homes. A spokesman for the state agency, Brent Culbertson, confirmed in an email that McGuire is white and McCrae was black.
McGuire, who has worked for the department since 2015, has been put on administrative duty pending the investigation.
The news release said that McCrae used his body camera from the beginning of the traffic stop, and he called for backup when he saw McCrae's suspicious movements. State law typically requires a judge to sign off on any public release of police body-camera footage.
Other officers arrived within seconds of the shooting and attempted to resuscitate McCrae, as did an emergency medical crew, according to authorities. He was pronounced dead at the scene. The other occupants of the car weren't injured.
Police said that McGuire had minor abrasions after the altercation.
A woman who lives near the scene of the shooting, Delphine Bias, told WGHP-TV that she heard gunshots before walking to her window to see McCrae lying on the ground.
"I heard about four or five shots, 'Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow!'" she said. "So when I jumped up to run to see what was going on, I saw a gentleman laying over there on the street."
(Reuters) - A white Louisiana police officer was fired on Friday and a second suspended for the killing of Alton Sterling, a black man shot in a 2016 incident that inflamed the U.S. debate on racial bias in law enforcement, a police official said.
Baton Rouge officer Blane Salamoni, who shot Sterling in a confrontation outside a convenience store, was dismissed for violating department standards on use of force and for losing his temper, Police Chief Murphy Paul told a news conference.
The second officer, Howie Lake, was suspended for three days for failing to maintain his composure. The decisions followed an administrative review of the July 2016 shooting, and both officers plan to appeal, Paul said.
The steps are designed "to bring closure to a cloud that has been over our community for far too long," he said.
Sterling was among black men slain by police whose deaths sparked U.S. protests and helped fuel the Black Lives Matter movement.
Police released four videos of the confrontation with Sterling outside a convenience store, where he was selling CDs.
Paul called the footage from a police dash camera, officers' body cameras, and a store surveillance camera "graphic and shocking to the conscience."
Salamoni's camera shows him yelling at Sterling with expletives to put his hands on a car. He points a gun at his Sterling's head and shouts he will shoot him if he moves.
While struggling with Sterling, both officers' cameras came loose. Lake's footage ends by showing Sterling on his back in the parking lot, blood draining from his body.
Sterling, 37, was shot after a resident reported he had been threatened by a black man selling CDs. Police said Sterling was trying to pull a loaded gun out of his pocket when Salamoni opened fire.
Lawyers representing Sterling's five children applauded  Salamoni's firing, but expressed disappointment that the officers would not face charges.
"The person who was out of control was Blane Salamoni,"  attorney Michael Adams said at a news conference. "The person who stood by and let him be out of control was Howie Lake. That’s a tragedy."
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry said this week that Lake and Salamoni would not face charges since they had reason to believe that Sterling was armed and was resisting arrest.
The U.S. Department of Justice declined to prosecute the officers for civil rights violations in 2017, citing insufficient evidence.
(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Sandra Maler)
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  A standing-room-only crowd packed into a church Thursday to celebrate the life of a 22-year-old black man who was shot to death by Sacramento police, prompting angry protests in California's capital city and a resolve to force changes in police departments around the country.
The musical and scriptural celebration of Stephon Clark's life was interrupted by his emotional brother Stevante, who hugged and kissed the casket, led the crowd in chanting his brother's name, pounded his chest and shouted. Others on the stage attempted to calm him, with limited success.
The Rev. Al Sharpton hugged and consoled him and told the crowd not to judge how families grieve.
"This brother could be any one of us, so let them express and grieve," Sharpton said as he delivered the eulogy with Stevante Clark clutching him around the neck. "We are proud of them for standing up for justice."
Later Thursday, about 100 protesters blocked downtown streets for the third day in a row during rush hour but did not prevent fans from entering a Sacramento Kings NBA game at a downtown arena as they had during two previous games. Stevante Clark had asked protesters not to block the game.
Security was heavy outside, with police standing in riot gear and fans entering through heavy fencing and metal detectors. The game between the Kings and Indiana Pacers began without disruption.
Clark was killed March 18 by two Sacramento police officers responding to a report of someone breaking car windows. Video of the nighttime incident released by police shows a man later identified as Clark running into the backyard of his grandparent's home where police fired 20 rounds at him after screaming "gun, gun, gun."
It turned out Clark was holding a cellphone.
About 500 people attended the funeral, where friends and family shared memories of Stephon Clark's "keen dancing ability," sense of humor and smarts, and his desire to be a good father to his two young sons.  Speakers frequently started call-and-response chants of "I am ... Stephon Clark."
Clark's name has been a rallying cry at protests and calls for police reform in California and beyond. Families of people killed by police marched Thursday in Compton, calling for more transparency in use-of-force investigations, and the night before a small group of protesters gathered in New York City.
In Sacramento, Sharpton and others chastised President Donald Trump for failing to comment on police shootings of young black men. On Wednesday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders was asked about the Clark shooting and demurred, referring to it as a local issue.
"That is a systemic problem, not a local problem," said Zaid Shakir, a prominent California imam and former spiritual adviser to Muhammad Ali. "That's an American problem, a uniquely American problem."
Omar Suleiman, another imam who spoke, warned of attempts by the press to attack Clark's character as a way to suggest he's not "worth fighting for."
"The same media that humanizes white terrorists vilifies black victims," he said.
The near daily protests in downtown Sacramento have remained largely peaceful, with only a few instances of physical confrontations between protesters and police or other civilians. Several protesters Thursday approached a line of police on bicycles, with one holding up a cellphone and asking "is this a gun?"
At the funeral, Sharpton and others praised demonstrators for their restraint and urged them to follow the lead of the Rev Martin Luther King Jr. and his advocacy of nonviolent protest.
The Kings and their owner have been supportive of the Clark family.
The team announced plans to set up an education fund for Stephon Clark's children and a partnership with Black Lives Matter Sacramento to bring "transformational change" to the city's black communities.  Former Kings player Matt Barnes attended the funeral and helped pay for it.
The arena is the focal point of a downtown revitalization effort. The area has struggled economically and has a large homeless population.
Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg said he's committed to working with Stevante Clark to bring more resources to his South Sacramento community.
The two spoke at the funeral, where Stevante Clark apologized for previously disrupting a City Council meeting by jumping on a desk, dancing and shouting his brother's name at Steinberg.
"We're going to forgive the mayor, amen," Clark said at the funeral. "Everybody say they love the mayor."
Shernita Crosby, Stephon Clark's aunt, has said the family isn't "mad at all the law enforcement."
"We're not trying to start a riot," she said. "What we want the world to know is that we got to stop this because black lives matter."
___
Associated Press writers Sophia Bollag in Sacramento, John Antczak and Brian Melley in Los Angeles and videographer Haven Daley contributed to this story.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Nearly two years after a black man was shot and killed during a struggle with two white police officers, Louisiana's attorney general isn't pursuing charges against the officers in a decision that infuriated Alton Sterling's family and frustrated residents in the neighborhood where he died.
Since federal officials have already declined to charge the officers, the decision Tuesday by Attorney General Jeff Landry ends the criminal investigation of the two officers at the center of a case that highlighted racial tensions across the country.
The July 5, 2016, shooting came amid increased scrutiny of fatal encounters between police and black men. The day after Sterling's shooting, Philando Castile was killed in Minnesota by a police officer and the aftermath streamed on Facebook by his girlfriend. Then as demonstrators in Dallas protested those police shootings, a gunman killed five police officers. And on July 17, a black military veteran shot and killed three Baton Rouge law enforcement officers.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but didn't fire his gun. Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, prompting large protests.
Family and supporters of Sterling denounced Landry's decision in an angry news conference shortly after many of them met with the attorney general to hear his findings.
Quinyetta McMillon, the mother of one of Sterling's children, Cameron, said the officers killed Sterling "in cold blood."
"We're all out of tears. We have nothing else in us to cry about now," she said. "There's no amount of money in this world that can give those kids back their father."
Residents near the convenience store where Sterling was killed said they weren't surprised. Le'Roi Dunn, a 40-year-old cook, gestured at the spot where Sterling was killed and said it was wrong for the officers to avoid charges.
"It hurts, though, to see them get away and go on with their lives," Dunn said.
But Landry said his office reviewed all evidence compiled by the Justice Department, conducted its own witness interviews and concluded there was no case to be made. He pointed to toxicology and urine test results released Tuesday showing Sterling had cocaine, methamphetamine, fentanyl and other drugs in his system and said that contributed to Sterling's "non-compliance" with the officers' commands. He said two independent experts also determined the officers used reasonable force.
"I know the Sterling family is hurting," Landry told reporters. "I know that they may not agree with the decision.
L. Chris Stewart, a lawyer for two of Sterling's five children blasted the report as biased, saying it included things like Sterling's criminal history that did not pertain to the case.
State and federal authorities said Salamoni yelled that Sterling was reaching for a gun in his pocket before shooting him three times, and then fired three more shots into Sterling's back when he began to sit up and move. A 34-page report by Landry's office said it's "important to note" that Sterling's hands were concealed from the officers as he sat up and rolled away from Salamoni.
The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.
Video footage shows Sterling threatening someone with a firearm before the officers responded to a report of a man with a gun outside the Triple S Food Mart, according to Landry's report.
Now attention turns to the two officers' future with the police department as well as a pending civil suit.
Lake and Salamoni have been on paid administrative leave since the shooting. Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said he intends to conclude the disciplinary process against the officers by Friday and once concluded he'll release body camera and surveillance footage of the shooting — never seen publicly before.
Salamoni's attorney, John McLindon, said he expects his client to be fired and called it "grossly unfair" that a disciplinary hearing is planned so soon after the end of the criminal investigation.
"I believe it's a foregone conclusion," McLindon said.
A lawyer for Lake said his client should remain on the force. Attorney Kyle Kershaw said Lake's actions on the encounter complied with police procedure.
Lawyers for Sterling's five children have filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city of Baton Rouge, its police department and former police chief, and the two officers. It alleges a pattern of racist behavior and excessive force by the Baton Rouge police.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that the Second Amendment "WILL NEVER BE REPEALED" and called on voters to elect more Republicans in this fall's congressional elections because the GOP "must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court."
Trump's statements came a day after retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in an essay in The New York Times that repealing the amendment would make it easier for Congress to enact gun control legislation.
Last month's shootings that killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland, Florida, have galvanized young people, liberals and Democrats for a renewed push to curb firearms. That has included demonstrations that have drawn hundreds of thousands of marchers in cities across the country.
"THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED!" Trump tweeted early Wednesday. "As much as Democrats would like to see this happen, and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens, NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"
As with many issues, Trump's stated position on guns has been inconsistent. In a televised meeting after the Parkland massacre with shooting survivors, lawmakers and others, he suggested letting authorities confiscate guns from people considered dangerous even without court permission and expanding required background checks to also cover private gun sales. He's since abandoned those views.
There is no current, major push to repeal the Second Amendment. Any effort to do so would be unlikely to succeed in today's divisive political climate. Under the most common way to amend the Constitution, the House and Senate would both need to approve the proposal by two-thirds majorities. It would then need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.
Political parties do not technically "hold" the Supreme Court like they control Congress.
Justices are nominated by presidents and must be confirmed by the Senate. It is true justices often reflect the political views of presidents who select them, but that is not always the case.
Of the current nine justices, the four considered to comprise the court's conservative wing were appointed by GOP presidents and the four more liberal judges were selected by Democratic presidents. The ninth, often considered the crucial swing vote, is Anthony Kennedy, who was nominated by Republican President Ronald Reagan.
Trump would have an easier time filling the next Supreme Court vacancy if Republicans can expand their current 51-49 Senate majority in November's elections.
The Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the Second Amendment lets people own guns for self-defense.
ORLANDO, Fla. —  A U.S. jury weighing the fate of a woman whose husband killed 49 people at a Florida nightclub in 2016 began deliberations on Wednesday after her defense attorney said federal agents coerced her into saying she played a role in the rampage.
Noor Salman, 31, could face life in prison if convicted of helping her husband Omar Mateen plan the attack on the Pulse nightclub and then failing to do anything to stop one of the worst mass shootings in modern U.S. history.
The jury in U.S. District Court broke for the night after starting deliberations on Wednesday afternoon. It will resume  work at 9 a.m. EDT on Thursday, a court aide told reporters.
In closing arguments on Wednesday, defense lawyer Charles Swift said that FBI agents had planted Salman's statements during initial questioning that she had helped Mateen case targets.
“That’s his words,” Swift said, referring to one of the first interrogators who transcribed what Salman said. “Those are not her words.”
Swift said FBI agents questioned Salman for more than 11 hours and her statement was filled with phrases Salman would never have used, such as "green light" and "long gun."
He also said Salman could not have known that her husband would attack the Pulse, a gay nightspot.
"Even Omar didn't know he was going to attack the Pulse nightclub," Swift said. "If he doesn't know, she can't know."
In her closing statement, prosecutor Sara Sweeney contended that Salman had helped her husband check out potential sites and later sought to mislead investigators about what she knew.
Sweeney said Salman first told investigators that Mateen had acted without her knowledge but later admitted knowing he had left home with a gun and had watched jihadist videos online.
The prosecutor also said Salman had aided Mateen by making up a cover story to his mother on the night of the shooting that he was going to dinner with a friend.
Salman faces charges of obstruction of justice and aiding Mateen in providing support to the Islamic State militant group. Mateen had claimed allegiance to a leader of the group. Police killed him in an exchange of gunfire at the nightclub.
On Monday, Judge Paul Byron rejected a defense motion to dismiss the charges against Salman or declare a mistrial because the prosecution had failed to disclose Mateen's father had been an FBI informant before the attack.
(Writing by Ian Simpson; editing by Jonathan Oatis and Cynthia Osterman)
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. —  A federal judge reopened fact-finding in a wrongful-death civil lawsuit over a former St. Louis police officer's fatal shooting of a black man.
Attorney Al Watkins, who represents Anthony Lamar Smith's family, on Wednesday confirmed U.S. District Judge Jean Hamilton's decision to reopen discovery. It comes after an attorney general's office report that found DNA evidence was withheld from lawyers for Smith's family.
Former officer Jason Stockley, who is white, was acquitted in criminal court of killing Smith, 24, in 2011. Stockley said Smith was moving his hand toward a gun found in his car, while prosecutors insisted Stockley had planted the weapon.
The attorney general's office report showed Stockley's DNA was found on a gun at the scene of the shooting, but Smith's DNA was not. The evidence was not provided to the Smith's family for the civil lawsuit, which was settled for $900,000 in 2013.
"There is no doubt about it. That was the elephant in the evidence locker room," Watkins said.
Missouri Attorney General's office spokeswoman Mary Compton acknowledged the judge's decision in a Wednesday statement, but did not comment further.
The evidence was highlighted after the St. Louis Circuit Attorney's office announced new criminal first-degree-murder charges against Stockley in 2016 and used it in the case against him. A judge ultimately acquitted Stockley in September, sparking months of protests in the St. Louis area.
At the urging of Smith's family, current Attorney General Josh Hawley launched an investigation in which he hired private attorney, Hal Goldsmith, in September to look into allegations concerning the evidence. Goldsmith found that two St. Louis police lab reports from 2012 were not provided to attorneys for Smith's family, which filed their federal wrongful-death lawsuit in 2012.
Hawley's office released the results from Goldsmith's investigation in December, but did not release the full report. Watkins said Smith's family now wants more information to pinpoint who is at fault for not providing the DNA evidence to them during the civil lawsuit.
Smith was spotted by Stockley and his partner in a suspected drug transaction in December 2011. Police said Smith nearly struck the officers while driving away, prompting a chase that ended when Stockley shot Smith while Smith was still in his car.
Stockley resigned from the police department in 2013.
Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general for six years under President Barack Obama, stepped away from public service in 2015 but has since emerged as a bulwark against the Trump administration, taking a leading role in challenging the president’s policies in court and trying to chip away at the Republicans’ grip on state governments. Mr. Holder discussed his efforts to fight Republican gerrymandering, whether Facebook should be regulated and the potential legacy of Mr. Trump’s presidency in a wide-ranging TimesTalks conversation with the reporter Alexander Burns on Wednesday night in New York.
Here are the takeaways.
After the Trump administration announced this week that it would add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census, Mr. Holder said he planned to sue to block the change on behalf of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, which he chairs. The census aims to count everyone who resides in the country, whether they are citizens or not, and Mr. Holder echoed the concerns expressed by several states this week that the citizenship question could reduce the responses from noncitizens and even legal immigrants.
He said his lawsuit would be aided by Mr. Trump’s Twitter utterances.
“This is one of those incidences where I think the president’s tweets and public statements will become relevant,” Mr. Holder, 67, said. “To show the true intent — that it is not as benign as they would make it out to be. Through the words of Donald Trump and through the tweets of Donald Trump, you’ll see what the true intention was of the administration.”
Normally, he noted, it would be difficult to argue in court that the government pushed a policy with a malicious intent. But Mr. Trump’s tweets provide plenty of material for lawsuits, Mr. Holder said.
“It is certainly the gift that keeps on giving,” he said.
Mr. Holder conceded that he prefers Twitter to Facebook but occasionally catches a glimpse of Facebook when his wife signs on. But he said he had been following the recent news that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users.
That security breach, along with the social network’s role in spreading Russian-backed propaganda during the presidential election, bolstered an argument for regulating Facebook, Mr. Holder said.
“There needs to be a certain degree of freedom,” he said. “We don’t want to stifle the creativity that comes from those platforms.”
But he added: “There is a way in which we have to think of these platforms as communication companies. What then does that mean in terms of how they should be regulated?”
Mr. Holder, who served as the attorney general from February 2009 to April 2015, said he was stunned by the support Mr. Trump still enjoyed in some circles after a pornographic-film star and a former Playboy model claimed they had sexual relationships with him.
“I find it hard to believe the conversations that we have about the conduct of this president. They are mind-blowing,” he said. “I think to myself, You gave my guy grief because he wore a tan suit.”
Mr. Holder said that if the same allegations of extramarital affairs had been made against Mr. Obama or President George W. Bush, their presidencies would have been over. “I just don’t understand how this has not had the reaction generated that would have been generated by any other president,” he said.
Mr. Trump has nominated Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A., to be the next secretary of state and named a veteran of the spy agency, Gina Haspel, as the next director. Both nominations require Senate confirmation, and Ms. Haspel will certainly face questions about her work as a clandestine officer in the agency’s counterterrorism operations. She oversaw a secret prison in Thailand involved in the rendition, detention and interrogation of detainees.
In 2012, Mr. Holder effectively closed that dark chapter in the C.I.A.’s history, announcing that a three-year Justice Department investigation into brutal interrogations was ending without a prosecution. The decision outraged some liberals.
On Wednesday night, Mr. Holder said that Ms. Haspel would have to answer tough questions — and that the public deserved to know more about the country’s enhanced interrogation program. He said that parts of the Justice Department report and a separate Senate investigation into the program should be declassified.
“The American people need to know exactly what happened during that time period,” he said.
Responding to recent calls for a repeal of the Second Amendment, Mr. Holder said such an effort was impracticable but offered four suggestions to address what he called a “gun violence epidemic in the United States.” His remarks came days after John Paul Stevens, a retired associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, wrote an Op-Ed in The Times advocating repeal.
Assault weapons should be banned, as well as higher-capacity magazines, Mr. Holder said. Background checks should be expanded for prospective gun buyers, and the government should reinstate the funding of studies on gun violence by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
“Compare us to any other nation, and we are just off the charts when it comes to mass shootings and the number of people killed through the use of firearms,” Mr. Holder said. “We have to do something about it.”
DES MOINES, Iowa —  A comment on an Iowa congressman's campaign Facebook page about one of the survivors of a Florida school shooting has prompted hundreds of comments, many met by mocking replies from the campaign.
U.S. Rep. Steve King's campaign Facebook page on Sunday featured a picture of Emma Gonzalez as she gave a speech at Saturday's "March for Our Lives" rally in Washington. Alongside a photo of Gonzalez, who wore a Cuban flag patch, the page noted Gonzalez's Cuban heritage and stated her "ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens."
Hundreds responded with outrage and blasted King for criticizing a young student who had survived a school shooting. The campaign repeatedly defended the initial statement, and in response to one comment wrote it was "just pointing out the irony of someone wearing a communist flag while advocating for gun control."
A call to his campaign rang unanswered.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
The gun-control movement goes global, a Trump accuser opens up, and Catalonia seethes. Here’s the latest:
• “Welcome to the revolution.”
That was a survivor of the recent Florida school massacre addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent” at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington on Saturday.
Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches in support of gun control, including in Paris, above, Berlin, London, Mumbai and Tokyo.
Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. Here are the basic steps for how most people buy a gun in 15 countries across the globe. Meanwhile, Remington, one of the oldest U.S. gun makers, has filed for bankruptcy.
_____
• “France will never forget his heroism, his bravery, his sacrifice.”
France mourned a police officer, Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame, who died of his injuries after swapping places with a hostage held in a supermarket by a gunman claiming allegiance to the Islamic State.
But not everyone was upset. A former French left-wing parliamentary candidate was arrested for celebrating the officer’s death on Twitter and saying it meant one less voter for President Emmanuel Macron.
_____
• President Trump returned from his Florida resort to a White House he left in turmoil last week. (Catch up with his head-spinning decisions on security, trade and the domestic budget here.) His own aides are nervous about what comes next.
His new, hard-line choices for key posts — including John Bolton as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — have raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet U.S. demands.
And yet personal scandals continue to loom. Two women have now detailed sexual affairs with Mr. Trump during his current marriage. In an interview broadcast hours ago, the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels, above, said that she had been threatened into silence, but that “being made out to be a liar” had persuaded her to speak. (Here’s our profile of her.)
_____
• Germany has been dragged into Spain’s festering territorial dispute. Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia, was detained there on an international arrest warrant after crossing from Denmark.
In Catalonia, the effect of Mr. Puigdemont’s arrest was immediate as protesters took to the streets of Barcelona, above, and clashed with the authorities.
_____
• High-level officials from North and South Korea meet this week to discuss the agenda for the talks between their leaders, Kim Jong-un and Moon Jae-in, which will set the stage for possible talks between Mr. Kim and President Trump. Above, a meeting last week between officials from both sides.
Around 30,000 North Koreans have successfully defected to the South in total, but far fewer are getting out under the reign of Mr. Kim.
Our reporters reconstructed the harrowing story of five who never made it.
_____
• In Hungary, a narrow majority of voters want the country’s far-right prime minister, Viktor Orban, out of office, but have no single party to rally behind because the opposition refuses to join forces behind a unity candidate.
This has enraged voters whose frustrations with Mr. Orban, above, outweigh their support for any particular opposition politician.
_____
• Marijuana is legal to buy in the Netherlands, but not to grow.
That has forced licensed coffee shops to rely on the black market to stock up. A pilot program will test legalizing production.
Supporters hope decriminalization will help assure that users have access to safer marijuana. Above, an illegal cannabis farm, just after a raid by the Dutch police last month.
_____
• Internet companies like Facebook and Google were built on a model in which people gave up their information for free services. Now, that idea is under siege by governments around the world.
• Qantas Airways made a giant leap forward in long-haul travel with an inaugural nonstop flight between Australia and Britain in 17 hours.
• We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona.
• Louis Vuitton has hired Virgil Abloh as a street wear specialist for its growing luxury men’s line. He will be one of the few black designers at the top of a French heritage house.
• Asian markets had a tough open after U.S. stocks dropped on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.
• A pothole epidemic has turned the streets of Rome, above, the city that built an empire on its roads, into an embarrassing mess. [The New York Times]
• A fire at a shopping mall in Russia has killed at least 37 people, and dozens more are missing. [The New York Times]
• Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party in Britain, apologized for “pockets” of anti-Semitism in its ranks after Jewish leaders issued an open letter pinpointing hostility to Jews. [The Guardian]
• In Japan, home to the world’s oldest population, prisons have become a haven for lonely older women in search of community and stability. [Bloomberg]
• Sweden’s state curriculum urges teachers to “counteract traditional gender roles.” At one school, girls are encouraged to shout “No!” and boys run the play kitchen. Exactly how this teaching method affects children is still unclear. [The New York Times]
Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
• Explore how to age with meaning and happiness.
• Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different.
• Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.
• For nearly a decade, the photographer John Moore has traversed the Mexico-U.S. border, covering the immigration story from all sides. Here are 17 of his striking images.
• In memoriam: Gary Lincoff, 75, a self-taught mycologist who spread the joy of mushrooms far and wide.
• Are you really in love if it’s not on Instagram? In an Op-Ed, a writer questions — and laments — the blurring of peoples’ personal and online lives.
Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here’s the list.)
We’d like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of “Lamento Borincano,” by Canario y Su Grupo.
Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, “Lamento Borincano” was composed by Rafael Hernández, one of the island’s most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).
The song’s title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Rico’s indigenous name.
The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of immigration north.
The lyrics tell of a farmer who is “loco de contento” (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:
Chris Stanford contributed reporting.
_____
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON —  With passage of an enormous budget bill, the GOP-controlled Congress all but wrapped up its legislating for the year. But will it be enough to convince voters to give Republicans another term at the helm?
In two big ways, Republicans have done what they promised. They passed a long sought tax overhaul bill that slashed tax rates. They've rolled back regulations, in ways they claim are boosting the economy. In the Senate, they confirmed a justice to the Supreme Court.
But there are signs Americans wanted more: immigration reforms, gun control legislation, even an infrastructure plan that President Donald Trump promised voters. Tax cuts, for now, will have to do.
"It's very clear that tax reform was going to be the biggest legislative crown jewel of this Congress," said Matt Gorman, the spokesman for the House GOP's campaign arm, the National Republican Congressional Committee. "That is a massive centerpiece of our campaign."
But polls swing wildly these days, strategists said. Voters are rarely focused for too long on single issues that can make or break campaigns, as when Republicans seized control of the House in 2010 amid the economic downturn or Democrats pushed to the majority in 2006 over opposition to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and congressional ethics scandals.
Trump's mixed messages on the GOP's accomplishments only make the campaigning more difficult. At the White House on Friday, he toyed with a veto of the $1.3 trillion budget package, complaining it lacked his immigration deal and smacked of overspending, before ultimately signing it. Such shifting views leave Republicans without a reliable partner as they try to push through political headwinds in what's expected to be a tough battle for majority control of the House and Senate.
Lawmakers left town for a two-week recess that marks the unofficial end of the legislating season having shelved resolution of other issues.
Congress failed to pass legislation to curb rising health insurance premiums or protect young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation, two issues that have stirred voters this year. And ahead of the nationwide "March for Our Lives" protests against gun violence, lawmakers took modest steps to boost school safety funds and improve compliance with the federal gun purchase background check system.
Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said the measures are "just not enough."
"The American people have been screaming from the rooftops for real, bold change to fight against" tragedies such as the Florida and Las Vegas shootings, Brown said. "We have seen the consequences of Congress's inaction."
Congress' spring agenda is thin. It includes modest plans to finish a banking bill that rolls back some of the regulations put in place after the financial crisis and pass a big farm bill that sets agriculture and school nutrition policies. The Senate also has to begin confirmation hearings for Trump's nominees for secretary of state and CIA director.
The one legislative lift will be another spending bill when the one Trump signed into law expires at the end of September. But it may bring more political risk than reward for Republicans, since conservatives largely sided with the president against this one, and could pose a more serious threat of voter revolt in the fall.
Strategists say it will be up to candidates to make the case that GOP's signature legislative accomplishment is worth their re-election.
Democrats have been hammering on the tax law as a giveaway to big business, in part because the steep reduction in corporate rates, from 35 percent to 21 percent, is permanent while the reduced rates for individuals and other provisions for families, including expanded child tax credits, expire in coming years.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has derided the lopsided benefits for households as "crumbs" — a quip Republicans eagerly throw back at Democrats.
To prop up public opinion of the GOP's top accomplishment, millions are being spent by outside groups. American Action Network, which is aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, is unleashing more than $30 million in ads, and the network backed by the influential Koch brothers will spend more than $20 million, heaping praise on lawmakers who voted for the tax cuts and informing voters about those who didn't.
And with passage of tax cuts so important to the GOP election effort, Republicans might take the unusual step of trying to pass them again.
"We think there's more we can do," Ryan said.
House GOP leaders are seriously considering legislation this summer — "Tax Cuts 2" — that would try to build on the original bill that became law in December by making the individual tax cuts permanent.
A do-over tax cuts bill is not expected to pass this Congress. But setting up another showdown accomplishes political goals for Republicans by turning attention back to the tax law, and pushing Democrats into the uncomfortable position of voting against it, again.
Americans for Prosperity, one of the groups in the Koch network, launched an ad campaign urging Congress to fortify the law by making tax cuts permanent. "More needs to be done," the group says on a website for its advocacy.
"Even if there are things that get passed between now and the fall, the bottom line is the single most important piece of legislation is going to be the tax bill," said veteran strategist David Winston, who advises House and Senate GOP leadership. "That defines what this Congress is about."
___
SACRAMENTO — Two police officers, 10 minutes, 20 bullets. Another young black man dead, this time in his grandmother’s backyard in California’s capital.
In the 10 days since Stephon Clark, 22, was fatally shot by officers investigating a vandalism complaint in his south Sacramento neighborhood, protesters have stormed City Hall and taken to the streets in anger. In a city that is mostly white and Latino, the killing, they say, is a sign of a police force that treats black residents with disdain and unfairly targets their neighborhoods.
Questions about excessive force hover over the case. A police helicopter was sent to a routine call. Officers fired 20 times at Mr. Clark. The police have also been accused of not giving Mr. Clark, who was unarmed, enough time to put his hands up and of waiting too long to call for medical help.
Adding to the scrutiny is the fact that the police muted their body cameras in the minutes after the shooting and can be seen on camera talking animatedly while Mr. Clark lay dead on the ground.
The shooting has reignited the kind of protests against police killings that spread over the past several years in cities like Ferguson, Mo.; Baton Rouge, La.; and Milwaukee. Last week, protesters here shut down traffic on Interstate 5 and blocked the doors to a Sacramento Kings basketball game.
“Everybody knows that we’re getting killed regularly out here; that’s the buildup to this,” said Tanya Faison, who founded the local chapter of Black Lives Matter.
The mood was decidedly hopeful in August, when Daniel Hahn took over the Police Department as the first black police chief. Mr. Hahn defended his department in an interview on Wednesday and said that every officer had undergone training to discourage race-based discrimination, as well as de-escalation training. Though he said he could not discuss the case, he acknowledged: “Race permeates everything we do in our country. To think anything else would be naïve.”
Mr. Hahn said he had asked Xavier Becerra, the California attorney general, for help with the case. Mr. Becerra announced on Tuesday that the state’s Justice Department would join the investigation.
The case began with a report of property damage. On the evening of March 18, two officers from the Sacramento Police Department were dispatched to investigate a complaint that someone was breaking vehicle windows.
A helicopter from the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department was also hovering over the scene looking for a potential suspect when it identified a man with a crowbar heading toward a nearby house.
A few minutes after responding to the call, with the apparent guidance from the sheriff’s helicopter, the city police officers spotted Mr. Clark, who they said ran from them. They followed him into the backyard and ordered him to show his hands, police video shows. Seconds later, in the dark, one officer shouted, “gun, gun, gun, gun!” and they shot 20 times at Mr. Clark. The officers believed Mr. Clark had a weapon and opened fire “fearing for their lives,” according to a police statement.
The entire encounter lasted roughly 10 minutes. The officers looked for a gun but all they found was a cellphone.
Minutes later more officers arrived and the team handcuffed Mr. Clark, who lay mortally wounded.
As other officers arrived, the two involved in the shooting muted the audio feeds to their body cameras. One of the officers was black and the other was white. They are both on paid leave, Mr. Hahn said.
Timothy Davis, president of the Sacramento Police Officers Association, called the event a tragedy and voiced his support for the officers involved. “No police officer ever wants to have to take a life,” Mr. Davis said. “Our officers are out there serving this community, leaving their family behind to serve this community.”
It remains unclear if the decision to mute the cameras went against official protocol, but the act alone has prompted intense suspicion. The Clark family’s lawyer, Benjamin Crump, said that the move “reeks of impropriety” and that the Police Department was trying to cover something up. Mr. Crump represented the families of Trayvon Martin, who was shot by a neighborhood watch volunteer in 2012, and Michael Brown, killed by the police in Ferguson two years later.
Mr. Hahn said that the department could not explain why the officers muted their cameras, but that the officers’s actions were under investigation. The department had been considering banning muting cameras outright before Mr. Clark was shot, he said.
“In their training they are told a couple different instances when they can mute their body cameras. The bigger ongoing question that we are already looking into and revising our policy is: Are those reasons acceptable?” Mr. Hahn said. “Should we continue to allow people to mute those cameras for those reasons?”
Dozens attended the wake for Mr. Clark on Wednesday and hundreds are expected to attend his funeral on Thursday, including activists from outside the city and from the Black Lives Matters movement, including the Rev. Al Sharpton. More vigils and protests are planned in cities across the country in the coming days.
Anger over Mr. Clark’s death has not let up in the days since the shooting. For four hours on Tuesday night hundreds of residents gathered at a Sacramento City Council meeting to complain that Mr. Clark’s death was just the latest in a long list of injustices against the black residents.
Late last year, a young black man was punched by a county police officer repeatedly during a jaywalking stop. Video of the attack attracted widespread attention on social media and the county later settled a lawsuit in response.
On Tuesday, speakers cried as they described the poverty and increasing income inequality between wealthy parts of Sacramento and its poorer neighborhoods.
Just beyond the council chamber’s doors, angry protesters took over City Hall’s main lobby and in one instance skirmished with police officers. “You shoot us down, we shut you down!” they chanted. Later, they blocked entry to another Sacramento Kings game.
Ms. Faison said the body-camera video of Mr. Clark’s death, which the police released in the days after the shooting, painted a damning portrait of the police.
“That’s just disgusting, honestly. That video. I don’t even know. I feel like they started shooting before they even looked at him. It looked like they were coming around the corner shooting and he was walking toward them to see what the noise was,” she said. “Why would you fly a helicopter for someone breaking into cars?”
Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento, who has received the brunt of the criticism and led the council meeting, said in an interview Wednesday that he was sympathetic to the complaints and that people of color in Sacramento have genuine grievances about the police.
“Regardless of the outcome of the investigation, which will be based on the current laws and the current policies and the current training, what happened here, the outcome, was plain wrong,” he said. “A 22-year-old man should not have died in this way.”
A pair of white police officers in Baton Rouge, La., will not be prosecuted by the state authorities in a fatal shooting of a black man there almost two years ago, the latest example of how rarely law enforcement officers are prosecuted for violence against suspects.
The Louisiana attorney general, Jeff Landry, announced the decision at a news conference on Tuesday, almost 11 months after the Justice Department declined to bring charges in the death of the man, Alton B. Sterling. Mr. Landry’s decision was widely expected, in part because officers in numerous other cases across the country have been cleared of criminal liability for using deadly force against civilians in recent years.
The Baton Rouge officers were called to the Triple S Food Mart on July 5, 2016, to respond to a report that a black man had brandished a gun and threatened someone. The officers and the man, Mr. Sterling, 37, ended up in a confrontation that left Mr. Sterling dead, prompted large protests in Baton Rouge, the Louisiana capital, and broadened the national debate about law enforcement tactics and the influence of race on American policing. It also set off a retaliatory incident in which a man shot and killed two Baton Rouge police officers and a deputy sheriff.
The officers at the scene, Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II, face administrative punishment, including dismissal, as well as a lawsuit from the man’s family. On Tuesday, John S. McLindon, a lawyer for Mr. Salamoni, said he all but expected his client to be fired, and said he would likely appeal the decision. Mr. McLindon noted that the shooting had been determined to be justified by independent use of force experts, including two cited in the state and federal investigations.
“He did exactly what he was trained to do,” Mr. McLindon said.
A widely seen cellphone video of the encounter shows the officers holding down Mr. Sterling, who investigators said was armed and under the influence of drugs and alcohol, and at one point someone can be heard saying, “He’s got a gun! Gun!”
An officer immediately draws his weapon and, after some more shouting, what appear to be gunshots are heard. The camera points elsewhere, and there are more apparent gunshots. Officer Salamoni fired all of the rounds.
David A. Harris, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, noted that even video footage in seemingly egregious police abuse cases may not be enough to sway juries, noting that jurors deadlocked in the murder case of Michael T. Slager, a white North Charleston, S.C., police officer who was recorded shooting an unarmed black man, Walter L. Scott, in the back. (Mr. Slager later pleaded guilty to a federal civil rights charge.)
“The question is whether the force was excessive,” Professor Harris said, “and that brings in lots of other questions, like what were they fearing, what were they seeing, what did they know that we don’t know. And the Supreme Court has been very protective of the law enforcement position vis-à-vis the law.”
Philip Stinson, an associate professor in the criminal justice program at Bowling Green State University, has counted 85 nonfederal police officers since 2005 who have been arrested on murder or manslaughter charges related to an on-duty shooting in the United States. To date, he said, 32 of them have been convicted of a crime.
Another case is now unfolding in Sacramento, Calif., where Stephon Clark, 22, an unarmed black man, was shot 20 times by the police in his grandmother’s backyard on March 18. The California attorney general, Xavier Becerra, announced on Tuesday that he would step in to oversee the investigation.
Another video of the shooting of Mr. Sterling, filmed by the owner of the store, depicted the encounter from a different angle. That video showed one of the officers removing something from Mr. Sterling’s pocket. Witnesses later said they saw a handgun on the ground next to Mr. Sterling — the federal government said it was a loaded .38 caliber revolver — but his relatives said they were not aware that he owned a gun.
“As with every criminal case, we must analyze the evidence, the law and the facts and then draw a conclusion,” Mr. Landry said at a news conference. “But we are always mindful of the human element. I know the Sterling family is hurting. I know that they do not agree with this decision.”
Indeed, minutes after Mr. Landry’s announcement, members of the family and their lawyers, who had met with him earlier in the morning, held their own event in which they denounced the attorney general’s decision.
“It takes courage to have political office, it takes courage to be a prosecutor, it takes courage to fight for justice,” said one lawyer, L. Chris Stewart. “And we didn’t see that in this situation.”
Sandra Sterling, Mr. Sterling’s aunt, spoke at length from a wheelchair, criticizing the attorney general and the police. “Shame on him,” she said of Mr. Landry. She also repeatedly called out Officer Salamoni. “You took an oath to protect and serve, not to protect and kill,” she said.
Many in Baton Rouge have accused the officers, particularly Officer Salamoni, of engaging Mr. Sterling in such a way that an ugly confrontation was inevitable. Lawyers for the family have said that Mr. Sterling’s relatives were shown enhanced video and audio clips revealing that Officer Salamoni had said to Mr. Sterling, “I’ll kill you, bitch,” or something like it, as he put a gun to Mr. Sterling’s head.
When the Justice Department ended its review, there were renewed protests in Baton Rouge, but they were relatively muted compared with those the previous summer. It then fell to Mr. Landry to determine whether the state would bring any charges.
Mr. Landry, a Republican former congressman who was elected attorney general in 2015, noted that it was not his office’s role “to determine whether the Baton Rouge Police Department’s policy was followed, or if certain tactics or language was more appropriate than others.”
Officers Salamoni and Lake have been on paid leave since the shooting. On Tuesday, Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said the two officers would face administrative hearings later this week, asking the community to have “just a little more patience.”
Chief Paul was introduced, in his televised appearance, by Mayor Sharon Weston Broome, who chose him as chief late last year. Both the mayor and the chief are black, and Chief Paul has publicly shared a recollection of being subject to what he described as a dubious police stop when he was younger.
Ms. Weston Broome has previously said that she would like to see Officer Salamoni fired and Officer Lake disciplined, drawing a rebuke from the former chief, Carl Dabadie Jr., who said that any punishments must come after the officers were afforded due process.
On Tuesday, the mayor reminded residents of their right to protest, so long as it was peaceful.
As for the fate of the officers, she said, “We will now act swiftly and accordingly. I’m confident the chief will act expeditiously and fairly in his own investigation.”
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police (all times local):
7:20 p.m.
Protesters again blocked fans from entering the NBA arena as the Sacramento King's game began.
They gathered to protest the March 18 killing of Stephon Clark by Sacramento police. It's the second protest blocking off the Sacramento King's arena since then.
Protesters stood in front of the doors on several sides of the arena and some taunted fans waiting to enter.
The team's game against the Dallas Mavericks tipped off only a few minutes after the scheduled time. The 17,600-seat arena was sparsely populated.
Several blocks away a City Council meeting was packed with residents discussing the shooting. Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, disrupted the meeting when it began.
__
6:40 p.m.
The brother of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police interrupted a Sacramento City Council meeting by jumping on the desk in front of the mayor and chanting his brother Stephon Clark's name.
Stevante Clark marched into the Tuesday meeting, jumped on the dais and danced around.
He demanded to speak and said he didn't think the council would make meaningful changes as a result of his brother's death.
The council adjourned for roughly 15 minutes as a result of the disruption.
Twenty-two-year-old Stephon Clark was fatally shot by police March 18 in his grandmother's backyard. Officers said they initially thought he had a gun. He was holding a cell phone.
__
4:15 p.m.
The family of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police is skeptical that there will be a proper investigation — even with the state attorney general involved.
The office announced Tuesday that it has joined the investigation into last week's fatal shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark.
The police chief says he hopes the attorney general's involvement will bring faith and transparency to the case that has sparked angry protests.
Clark's uncle, Curtis Gordon, says the family will wait to see what results. He says it's all talk at this point.
Police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.
Activists have sought greater independence in the investigation, with some calling for criminal charges against the two officers.
___
9:50 a.m.
The California attorney general's office is joining an investigation into the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police to provide independent oversight.
Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn announced the partnership Tuesday alongside Attorney General Xavier Becerra (HAH-vee-air Bah-sehr'-ah). He says he hopes it will build "faith and confidence" in the investigation.
The police are investigating the shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark on March 18 by two officers who thought he had a gun. He was holding only a cellphone.
The police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.
Activists have called for greater independence in the investigation and some have argued the two officers should be charged.
Hahn promised transparency in the investigation and urged protesters to exercise calm.
