ORLANDO, Fla. — The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.
The outcome was even more striking because the not-guilty verdict came from jurors in Orlando, Fla., where Omar Mateen’s rampage left 49 people dead and 53 others injured, the worst terrorist attack on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001.
Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State — a narrative countered by her family’s claims that she was kept in the dark about her husband’s secrets and was home sleeping when the attack occurred.
To blame for the government’s defeat, said defense lawyers and legal experts who closely followed the trial, was a flimsy circumstantial case that ultimately was unable to persuade jurors during the eight days of trial.
Testimony from an F.B.I. agent revealed that prosecutors knew early on, but did not reveal, that one of their crucial initial pieces of evidence — that Ms. Salman had admitted driving by the nightclub with her husband in the days before the attack — most likely did not happen.
Prosecutors also faltered when they argued that Ms. Salman had created an alibi for her husband the night of the shooting, telling Mr. Mateen’s mother that he was out to dinner with a friend identified only as Nemo. But that line was Mr. Mateen’s own lie to his wife, defense lawyers argued. They put Nemo on the stand, over prosecutors’ objections, to testify that he knew Mr. Mateen had used him in the past as a cover story to cheat on his wife.
“The more we learned, the better Noor Salman looked,” Charles D. Swift, one of her lawyers, told reporters after the verdict was announced.
The jury of seven women and five men deliberated a little more than 12 hours before acquitting Ms. Salman on charges of aiding and abetting the commission of a terrorist act and of obstructing justice. She had been accused of giving misleading statements to law enforcement officers who interviewed her after the massacre.
Late Friday, the jury foreman said in a statement to The Orlando Sentinel that the verdict did not mean jurors thought Ms. Salman was unaware of Mr. Mateen’s plans.
“On the contrary, we were convinced she did know,” the foreman told The Sentinel, asking to remain anonymous and saying he was speaking on his own behalf. “She may not have known what day, or what location, but she knew. However, we were not tasked with deciding if she was aware of a potential attack. The charges were aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice.”
And on those charges, he said, the jury was presented with “no option” but to acquit.
In federal court, where terrorism defendants often accept guilty pleas before going to trial, prosecutors rarely lose cases. A report last year by the Center for National Security at Fordham University School of Law found that, while Islamic State-related cases are more likely to go to trial than federal cases in general, every case that was resolved between March 2014 and August 2017 resulted in a conviction. The national average conviction rate is 92.5 percent, according to the report.
But prosecutors generally have been cautious about filing charges against possible accomplices in terrorism cases. Though an accomplice is sometimes the only one left alive to prosecute, such cases can be difficult to prove.
“Prosecutors have got a duty not to be caught up in hysteria,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when a white supremacist killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston in 2015 and successfully prosecuted a man who had withheld information about that attack.
He said prosecutors must guard against allowing public emotion to influence their decisions.
“The federal government should never lose a case,” Mr. Nettles said. “Prosecutors should never lose. They pick the fight, they pick the day the fight happens, they’ve got the best investigative capabilities in the world. It should always be an embarrassment for the government to lose.”
After the verdict, two of Ms. Salman’s defense lawyers, Charles D. Swift and Linda Moreno, said in an interview that prosecutors had offered their client a plea deal in the weeks leading up to the trial but she had refused to accept it, insisting on her innocence.
The 31-year-old defendant wiped tears from her eyes after the verdict on the first charge was read. By the time the judge’s clerk finished, Ms. Salman openly sobbed, hugging her lawyers and burying her face in their arms. They, too, wept. She later left the courthouse with Fritz Scheller, another one of her lawyers.
A spokeswoman for the Salman family said Ms. Salman plans to return to California, where she had been living before her arrest in January 2017, to be with her 5-year-old son. She had faced a sentence of up to life in prison if convicted.
“I don’t know how she’s going to make up for two years,” said Al Salman, one of her uncles, who sat two rows behind his niece during the trial. He said he intends to hire a therapist to help Ms. Salman rebuild her life.
Families of the Pulse victims sat in stone-faced silence as the verdict was announced. They walked out of the federal courthouse in downtown Orlando as a group, some of them wearing dark sunglasses, without saying a word.
After news of the verdict spread, a small group gathered outside Pulse, which has remained shuttered since the shooting, holding signs declaring, “We will not let hate win.”
“Those of us directly affected by this tragedy must find peace in our hearts and remember that he was the one who pulled the trigger that night,” Barbara Poma, the nightclub owner and founder of a foundation for the victims, said in a statement, referring to Mr. Mateen. “This verdict cannot and will not divide us.”
The prosecutors, James D. Mandolfo and Sara C. Sweeney, declined to comment, other than to thank jurors for their work and say they respected their decision.
From the start, Ms. Salman had insisted she had nothing to do with her husband’s rampage. The prosecution built a convincing case that Mr. Mateen methodically made arrangements for the attack, apparently inspired by the Islamic State propaganda he obsessively consumed online — including a video he watched weeks before the shooting urging bloodshed against Americans during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
The burden on prosecutors after that was high: They had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Ms. Salman knowingly and willfully helped or tried to help Mr. Mateen commit an act that would provide material support to the Islamic State. Merely being his wife or unwittingly assisting her husband was not enough, said Joshua L. Dratel, a New York lawyer experienced in defending terrorism cases.
“You have to share the intent of the actor,” Mr. Dratel said. “You have to do something to make the crime succeed — not do something that makes the crime succeed without knowing that the crime is going to occur. You have to have both of those elements.”
Prosecutors did not have to prove a motive, though Ms. Sweeney, an assistant United States attorney, said in her closing argument on Wednesday that Ms. Salman could have aided Mr. Mateen out of love, money or spite. But while Mr. Mateen’s internet browsing and social media records showed intense radicalization, there was no similar history for Ms. Salman. In fact, twice on Facebook she criticized Islamic terrorists, at one point calling them bad Muslims.
“In today’s world, to have a case like that where you have access to all the social media, you have access to the phones, you have access to the computers — all of that, and you don’t have a specific piece of evidence pointing to her intent? You don’t have a case,” Mr. Dratel said.
In her supposed confession, Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had scouted Pulse as a target for the June 12, 2016, attack, yet investigators apparently knew just days later that there was no evidence to corroborate that. That false statement in her confession called into question the rest of what she told law enforcement over more than 11 hours of questioning without a lawyer present. The F.B.I. made no audio or video recordings of the interview. The jury foreman told The Sentinel that he wished a recording had been available.
“Twenty years ago, not everybody who you ran into had a digital recorder in their pocket, and we didn’t have ‘CSI’ shows, and we didn’t expect to have everything on tape for us to see,” said David S. Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor in Miami who is now a defense lawyer. “But that’s what we expect now. If there isn’t a picture, it didn’t happen. So the fact that they didn’t record the confession helped to raise this reasonable doubt as to what was being said.”
The final coup for the defense came during the prosecution’s closing argument, when Ms. Sweeney for the first time suggested that the reason Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had driven by Pulse was because she incorrectly thought the nightclub was at the Disney Springs shopping and entertainment complex, formerly known as Downtown Disney, which the couple did visit.
Offering an especially chilling detail, Ms. Sweeney suggested that Mr. Mateen bought a baby carriage and doll at a Walmart the night before the massacre so that he could conceal his AR-15 assault rifle and draw no suspicion as he walked toward Disney Springs, which prosecutors believe was his original intended target.
Prosecutors had never before assigned any importance to the stroller, which Mr. Mateen bought alone, while Ms. Salman was miles away, shopping with his credit card. Mr. Swift said in an interview that it showed his client was not in the loop and her husband had intentionally kept his plot from her.
“Doesn’t it make more sense to got to the Walmart with his wife for a baby carriage?” he asked. “If she is aiding and abetting, then why isn’t she with him? If she was there, she might have questioned him: Why do we need a baby carriage? Their kid did not need a stroller.”
The defense asked for a mistrial this week after prosecutors disclosed that Mr. Mateen’s father, Seddique Mateen, had been an F.B.I. informer at various times from January 2005 to the time of the attack. He is now under criminal investigation for financial transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan he made shortly before the shooting. Defense lawyers argued that the elder Mateen’s relationship with the F.B.I. should have been disclosed early on in the case.
“Mistakes were made by everybody, but nobody would admit to them,” Mr. Swift said. “Mistakes were made by the interrogators, and by the original people who looked at Mateen, and the prosecution. At every level.”
“Salman was a solution to all their mistakes,” he added. “But the jury didn’t buy it.”
SANFORD, N.C. —  Police in North Carolina have shot and killed a suspect in the wounding of a teen.
News outlets reported Sanford officers were called to a home around 10:30 p.m. Tuesday and found 41-year-old Juan Carlos Romero with a handgun. Police said Romero shot at the three officers, and they returned fire, killing him.
A news release says officers determined Romero had shot and wounded a 19-year-old woman, who was in stable condition Wednesday at a hospital in Chapel Hill.
The names and races of the officers involved weren't immediately released. They've been placed on leave while the State Bureau of Investigation reviews the shooting.
A spokesman for the police department didn't immediately return messages Wednesday seeking more information.
Sanford is about 35 miles (55 kilometers) southwest of Raleigh.
FRESNO, Calif. —  A jury has convicted a California man of attempted murder in the shooting of two unarmed officers in the lobby of a county jail.
The Fresno Bee reports that Fresno County jurors returned the verdict against 38-year-old Thong Vang on Thursday, rejecting his claim of self-defense.
Authorities say Vang shot officers Juanita Davila and Toamalama Scanlan in 2016 when they approached him after he cut to the front of the visitors' line at the downtown Fresno jail.
Scanlan's wife, Tespatasi, testified that her husband can no longer walk, talk or feed himself. Davila was shot in the neck and said she still needs another surgery to mend her broken jaw.
Vang had prior rape convictions. Prosecutors say he is now facing a sentence of more than 100 years in prison.
NASHVILLE, Tenn. —  A black man accused of fatally shooting a white woman and wounding six other people at a Tennessee church in September pleaded not guilty through his attorney Wednesday to charges in a 43-count indictment including first-degree murder, attempted murder and felony civil rights intimidation.
In Davidson County Criminal Court, attorney Jennifer Thompson entered the plea on behalf of 26-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson during the arraignment on charges in the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ shooting in Nashville. Samson was not in court Wednesday and has not yet appeared in court. He was indicted this month.
An arrest affidavit says Samson waived his rights and told police he arrived armed and fired at Burnette in September. The Sunday shooting rampage killed 38-year-old Melanie L. Crow of Smyrna, Tennessee. She was shot in the church parking lot.
All of the victims in the church shooting were white, but authorities have not definitively said whether or not they believe Samson specifically targeted them based on their race. The indictment doesn't specify which civil rights were infringed upon.
In October, Nashville Police Detective Steve Jolley testified that a note in Samson's car referred to a white supremacist's 2015 massacre at a South Carolina black church.
The note found on the dashboard read something like, "Dylann Roof was less than nothing," Jolley said.
Jolley said Samson also told him he didn't give much thought to race or religion, and heard voices and had visions.
According to police records, Samson struggled to hold a job, had a volatile relationship with a woman that twice involved police and also had expressed suicidal thoughts in June.
Authorities have said Samson came to the U.S. from Sudan as a child in 1996 and is a U.S. citizen.
The FBI and U.S. attorney's office in Nashville quickly opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
QUEBEC CITY —  The man accused in the slayings of six men at a Quebec City mosque has pleaded not guilty.
Alexandre Bissonnette entered the pleas in a courtroom Monday ahead of pretrial motions to be debated this week.
Bissonnette faces six charges of first-degree murder and six of attempted murder. More than 50 people were at the Islamic Cultural Centre in January 2017 when the shooting began during evening prayers on a Sunday.
Those who monitor extremist groups in Quebec described the French-Canadian university student as someone who took extreme nationalist positions at Laval University and on social media. He was a supporter of French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and U.S. President Donald Trump.
Quebec's premier previously acknowledged the French-speaking province has its "demons" in terms of attitudes toward Muslims.
(Reuters) - A white Louisiana police officer was fired on Friday and a second suspended for the killing of Alton Sterling, a black man shot in a 2016 incident that inflamed the U.S. debate on racial bias in law enforcement, a police official said.
Baton Rouge officer Blane Salamoni, who shot Sterling in a confrontation outside a convenience store, was dismissed for violating department standards on use of force and for losing his temper, Police Chief Murphy Paul told a news conference.
The second officer, Howie Lake, was suspended for three days for failing to maintain his composure. The decisions followed an administrative review of the July 2016 shooting, and both officers plan to appeal, Paul said.
The steps are designed "to bring closure to a cloud that has been over our community for far too long," he said.
Sterling was among black men slain by police whose deaths sparked U.S. protests and helped fuel the Black Lives Matter movement.
Police released four videos of the confrontation with Sterling outside a convenience store, where he was selling CDs.
Paul called the footage from a police dash camera, officers' body cameras, and a store surveillance camera "graphic and shocking to the conscience."
Salamoni's camera shows him yelling at Sterling with expletives to put his hands on a car. He points a gun at his Sterling's head and shouts he will shoot him if he moves.
While struggling with Sterling, both officers' cameras came loose. Lake's footage ends by showing Sterling on his back in the parking lot, blood draining from his body.
Sterling, 37, was shot after a resident reported he had been threatened by a black man selling CDs. Police said Sterling was trying to pull a loaded gun out of his pocket when Salamoni opened fire.
Lawyers representing Sterling's five children applauded  Salamoni's firing, but expressed disappointment that the officers would not face charges.
"The person who was out of control was Blane Salamoni,"  attorney Michael Adams said at a news conference. "The person who stood by and let him be out of control was Howie Lake. That’s a tragedy."
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry said this week that Lake and Salamoni would not face charges since they had reason to believe that Sterling was armed and was resisting arrest.
The U.S. Department of Justice declined to prosecute the officers for civil rights violations in 2017, citing insufficient evidence.
(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Sandra Maler)
BATON ROUGE, La. —  The investigation of a deadly police shooting that inflamed racial tensions in Louisiana's capital city has ended without criminal charges against two white officers who confronted a black man outside a convenience store two summers ago.
But experts in police tactics think the bloodshed could have been avoided if the Baton Rouge officers had done more to defuse the encounter with Alton Sterling. They say poor police tactics and techniques may have aggravated the volatile confrontation, which lasted less than 90 seconds.
Sterling's death fits a tragic pattern of "utterly preventable" police shootings and reinforces an urgent need for sweeping cultural changes in law enforcement training and procedures, said former Seattle police Chief Norm Stamper, author of the 2016 book "Protect And Serve: How To Fix America's Police." The fatal shooting of an unarmed black man in Sacramento, California, last week appears to be the latest example of the persistent problem, he added.
"These cops in Baton Rouge, in Sacramento, everywhere, are doing what they've been taught to do. Most of these controversial shootings are the result of conditioning and training," Stamper said.
Federal authorities consulted two independent experts who concluded the Baton Rouge officers, Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II, employed poor tactics. One of them said "tactical problems" may have escalated the situation. However, those use-of-force experts ultimately concluded that the officers used "reasonable" force against Sterling, according to a report released Tuesday by Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry.
Landry ruled out charges against the two officers nearly 11 months after the U.S. Justice Department announced neither officer would be charged with federal crimes. Now that the criminal investigations are over, Baton Rouge's police chief plans to decide by Friday whether to discipline Salamoni or Lake for their actions in the early morning hours of July 5, 2016.
Charles Key Sr., one of the experts consulted by the Justice Department, concluded the officers' actions created tactical problems that may have escalated the threat. Key told federal investigators that the officers should have engaged Sterling at gunpoint "from a position of cover" instead of initially approaching him up close.
"Tactically, the officers didn't handle it very well," Key said during a telephone interview this week. "Their tactics put them at risk."
Stamper said too many officers are trained to think they can't back down from a fight and consider survival first, instead of safety.
"It's just critical that police officers start with the sanctity of human life," he said.
Salamoni shot Sterling six times during a struggle outside the store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Lake helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but he didn't fire his gun.
The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.
Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, prompting large protests. Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said he will release other videos of the incident, including footage from the officers' body cameras and the store's surveillance camera, after he makes a disciplinary decision.
Video footage shows Sterling threatening someone with a firearm outside the Triple S Food Mart before the officers responded to a report of a man with a gun outside the store, according to Landry's report.
The officers told Sterling to put his hands on the hood of a car and struggled with him when he didn't comply, the report said. Salamoni drew his weapon and, using expletives, threatened to shoot him in the head if he didn't stop resisting, the report added.
Kenneth Sanders, the other expert consulted by the Justice Department, concluded Salamoni deserves to be disciplined for pointing his gun at Sterling's head and using profane language. Sanders also concluded that the officers incorrectly performed a "stop and frisk" of Sterling because Salamoni had Lake in the line of sight of his gun while he was covering his partner with his weapon.
Lake shocked Sterling with a stun gun twice before the officers wrestled him to the ground, investigators said. Salamoni yelled that Sterling was reaching for a gun in his pocket before shooting him three times, and then fired three more shots into Sterling's back when he began to sit up and move, state and federal authorities said.
Key said the officers' language may have "exacerbated the situation." He also concluded that tackling Sterling was the "dumbest" thing Salamoni did during the encounter because he exposed himself and left Lake with nothing but a stun gun to react, according to Landry's report.
Paul, who was sworn in as police chief in January, wouldn't comment Tuesday on the experts' findings. Paul and three deputy chiefs will preside over a disciplinary hearing before he imposes any punishment.
"We will look at decisions that were made during the incident and we will apply that behavior to our policies and procedures," he said.
Salamoni's attorney, John McLindon, said he expects the officer to be fired. He called it "grossly unfair" that a disciplinary hearing is planned less than a week after the criminal investigation's end. Lake's lawyer, Kyle Kershaw, said his client's actions complied with police procedure.
QUEBEC CITY —  A former Canadian university student has pleaded guilty to killing six men who were praying in a Quebec City mosque in January 2017, a court said on Wednesday, averting a trial in one of the country’s rare mass shootings.
Alexandre Bissonnette, 28, handcuffed and wearing leg irons as he entered the Quebec City courtroom, had asked on Monday to change his previous plea of not guilty.
Quebec Superior Court Justice François Huot accepted the new  plea on Wednesday after taking steps to ensure Bissonnette understood the consequences of professing his guilt.
Speaking to the courtroom, which included members of the mosque, the Centre Culturel Islamique de Québec, Bissonnette asked the victims' families for forgiveness and said he decided to plead guilty to spare them the hardship of a trial.
“I would like to ask forgiveness for all that I have done," he said. “If at least by pleading guilty I can do a little good in all this, that would be something."
Bissonnette did not explain why he had targeted the mosque but said he had held "suicidal thoughts" and an "obsession" with death.
“I am not a terrorist, nor an Islamophobe," he said.
The judge declared him guilty on six counts of first-degree murder and six counts of attempted murder.
Congregants gathered at the courthouse said they were relieved to avoid a lengthy trial, but that it would be difficult for families to forgive Bissonnette.
“Our people are still in a state of shock. The sentence has to be pronounced. A lot of things have to happen,” outgoing mosque president Mohamed Labadi told reporters. “There is still a deep sadness, even though he has admitted his guilt.”
The slightly built, dark-haired Bissonnette looked down and at times wiped away tears as the judge read out the names of the mosque shooting victims.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau initially described the shooting as a terrorist attack, although prosecutors did not charge Bissonnette with terrorism.
Police have described him as a “lone wolf” attacker.
Mass shootings are rare in Canada, where gun control laws are stricter than in the United States.
Sentencing arguments begin on April 10. Bissonnette faces at least 25 years in prison, and could receive concurrent sentences totaling more than 100 years.
(Reporting by Kevin Dougherty in Quebec City. Writing by Allison Lampert in Montreal; Editing by David Gregorio and Tom Brown)
RALEIGH, N.C. —  A North Carolina sheriff's office can't prove a compelling reason to keep evidence secret while it fights a lawsuit alleging a pattern of excessive force that culminated in a deputy fatally shooting a man at his home, a group of media outlets argued.
A lawyer for the news outlets filed a motion to intervene in the case late Thursday, asking the federal judge to unseal deposition transcripts and other evidence. The group includes The News & Observer, The Fayetteville Observer, WRAL-TV, WTVD-TV and The Associated Press.
The underlying lawsuit was brought by plaintiffs including the mother of John David Livingston, who was fatally shot in 2015 by a Harnett County deputy. Others allege excessive force in separate instances.
The media outlets argue the public has an interest in seeing evidence that shows how the law enforcement agency operated. They argue the defendants, who include deputies and sheriff's officials, can't prove there's a compelling reason to shield the information from public view.
The evidence is "of heightened concern to the public because government actors are the defendants," lawyer Amanda Martin wrote. "Despite the importance of this case, the defendants seek to seal the essential portions of the record."
Martin said the newspapers and television stations have no legal interest in the outcome of the case and are only acting to protect the public's right to transparency.
Lawyers for the sheriff's office asked a judge earlier this month to keep affidavits and transcripts from several law enforcement officials under seal, arguing that they include confidential records related to criminal investigations.
Livingston was 33 in November 2015 when deputies looking for another man arrived at his Lillington home with no warrant to ask about the other person, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit contends one of the deputies provoked an altercation that ended with him shooting Livingston multiple times at close range.
The deputy, Nicholas Kehagias, has said he feared for his life and that Livingston grabbed for his stun gun. A grand jury declined to indict Kehagias, who has resigned from the sheriff's office.
A News & Observer investigative series helped bring attention to Livingston's death.
Lawyers for the sheriff's office argue in court documents that Livingston engaged in hostile and aggressive acts that caused the deputy's response. They said other plaintiffs similarly provoked deputies and deny a pattern of excessive force.
___
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. —  A federal judge reopened fact-finding in a wrongful-death civil lawsuit over a former St. Louis police officer's fatal shooting of a black man.
Attorney Al Watkins, who represents Anthony Lamar Smith's family, on Wednesday confirmed U.S. District Judge Jean Hamilton's decision to reopen discovery. It comes after an attorney general's office report that found DNA evidence was withheld from lawyers for Smith's family.
Former officer Jason Stockley, who is white, was acquitted in criminal court of killing Smith, 24, in 2011. Stockley said Smith was moving his hand toward a gun found in his car, while prosecutors insisted Stockley had planted the weapon.
The attorney general's office report showed Stockley's DNA was found on a gun at the scene of the shooting, but Smith's DNA was not. The evidence was not provided to the Smith's family for the civil lawsuit, which was settled for $900,000 in 2013.
"There is no doubt about it. That was the elephant in the evidence locker room," Watkins said.
Missouri Attorney General's office spokeswoman Mary Compton acknowledged the judge's decision in a Wednesday statement, but did not comment further.
The evidence was highlighted after the St. Louis Circuit Attorney's office announced new criminal first-degree-murder charges against Stockley in 2016 and used it in the case against him. A judge ultimately acquitted Stockley in September, sparking months of protests in the St. Louis area.
At the urging of Smith's family, current Attorney General Josh Hawley launched an investigation in which he hired private attorney, Hal Goldsmith, in September to look into allegations concerning the evidence. Goldsmith found that two St. Louis police lab reports from 2012 were not provided to attorneys for Smith's family, which filed their federal wrongful-death lawsuit in 2012.
Hawley's office released the results from Goldsmith's investigation in December, but did not release the full report. Watkins said Smith's family now wants more information to pinpoint who is at fault for not providing the DNA evidence to them during the civil lawsuit.
Smith was spotted by Stockley and his partner in a suspected drug transaction in December 2011. Police said Smith nearly struck the officers while driving away, prompting a chase that ended when Stockley shot Smith while Smith was still in his car.
Stockley resigned from the police department in 2013.
DAYTON, Ohio —  Court filings about the fatal police shooting of a black shopper in an Ohio Walmart indicate a dispatcher told officers the man was loading a weapon with "bullets," even though a 911 caller hadn't specified ammunition. The man actually was carrying an air rifle he picked up from a shelf.
The Dayton Daily News reports the dispatcher's deposition offers the first public record of her perspective on the August 2014 shooting of 22-year-old John Crawford III at the Beavercreek Walmart.
When questioned nearly two years later, the dispatcher said a 911 caller indicated a man was loading a weapon, and she assumed that meant bullets. She said she realized her assumption but didn't immediately clarify that to police.
Her deposition was included in recent filings in a lawsuit over Crawford's death.
___
Information from: Dayton Daily News, http://www.daytondailynews.com
ORLANDO, Fla. —  The Latest on the trial of a woman accused of helping her husband plan a mass shooting at a Florida nightclub (all times local):
5:20 p.m.
Jurors in the trial of a woman accused of helping her husband plan an attack on an Orlando nightclub have stopped deliberating and will return in Thursday morning.
Wednesday was the first day of jury deliberations in the trial of Noor Salman. She was married to Omar Mateen, who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State and killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in June 2016. Police killed him after the attack.
Salman is charged with obstruction of justice and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
Jurors asked the court three questions in their first few hours of deliberation.
___
4:40 p.m.
Jurors are examining a statement the widow of the Pulse nightclub shooter made to FBI agents in the hours after her husband killed 49 people in 2016.
Jurors started deliberating in the trial of Noor Salman earlier Wednesday. She is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization. She faces up to life in prison if convicted of all charges.
After the jury deliberated for a few hours, they asked the judge if they could look at the statement Salman made to the FBI. The statement suggests Salman knew of an attack and did nothing to stop it. The judge printed out copies of it to be given to the panel.
Before Salman's trial, her attorneys had sought to prevent the statement from being presented as evidence. They have argued at trial that it was coerced.
The jurors also asked a question about an index of evidence and the wording on one of the charges Salman faces.
___
2 p.m.
Jurors have started to deliberate in the trial of a woman accused of helping her husband plan a deadly nightclub attack.
Federal Judge Paul Bryan released the jurors at 1:42 p.m. Wednesday to begin their discussions after 11 days of testimony.
Noor Salman is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
The 31-year-old mother is accused of helping her husband, Omar Mateen, plan his attack on the Pulse Nightclub in June of 2016. She is also charged with obstruction.
Mateen killed 49 people and police killed him.
___
1:15 p.m.
Defense attorneys for the woman accused of helping her husband plan a deadly nightclub attack are telling a jury that she had no idea what her husband had planned that night in June 2016.
Attorneys for Noor Salman told jurors on Wednesday that she couldn't have known about the attack because her husband, Omar Mateen, didn't even know he was going to attack the Pulse nightclub.
Salman is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization and faces up to life in prison if convicted.
The defense told the jury that there is reasonable doubt that the 31-year-old mother helped her husband and they should acquit her.
Jury deliberations are expected to begin later Wednesday.
___
11:45 a.m.
Prosecutors say the Orlando nightclub shooter intended to attack Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex by hiding a gun in a stroller but became spooked by police and chose the gay club as his target.
Prosecutors revealed the new information during closing arguments Wednesday in the trial of the gunman's widow, Noor Salman. She is charged with obstruction of justice and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
Prosecutors say she mislead investigators when they spoke to her in the hours after the attack. They say she knew Omar Mateen had guns and they both had visited Disney World in the days before the attack. Prosecutors also say lied about his internet use, his radicalization and the number of guns he had.
The defense is expected to begin closings arguments later Wednesday.
___
11 a.m.
Closing arguments are underway in the trial of a woman accused of helping her husband attack the gay nightclub Pulse in Orlando.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Sara Sweeney on Wednesday told the jury that Noor Salman "knowingly engaged in misleading conduct" when she spoke to the FBI in the hours after the attack, and helped her husband Omar Mateen plan the attack as well. Mateen killed 49 people in 2016.
Salman is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
Sweeney says Salman didn't know that Mateen was going to the Pulse nightclub. She thought he was going to Disney. The government alleges that Salman knew Mateen had guns and she also instructed him to lie about his whereabouts that night to his mother.
The defense is expected to begin closings arguments later Wednesday.
___
3:05 a.m.
Closing statements are expected to begin in the trial of a woman accused of helping her husband plan his June 2016 mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida.
Government prosecutors, then defense attorneys, will give closing statements starting Wednesday morning in the federal trial of Noor Salman, the 31-year-old mother accused of aiding her husband in the June 2016 Pulse nightclub attack.
Prosecutors have said Salman knew Omar Mateen was buying ammunition, helped him spend money before the attack and knew about his plan when he left home the night he killed 49 people in 2016.
Defense attorneys describe Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ who was abused by her husband, and who didn't know of his plans because he concealed much of his life from her.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Sacramento police shot Stephon Clark seven times from behind, according to autopsy results released Friday by a pathologist hired by Clark's family, a finding that calls into question the department's assertion the 22-year-old black man was facing officers and moving toward them when he was killed.
Dr. Bennet Omalu also determined Clark took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid.
"The proposition that has been presented that he was assailing the officers, meaning he was facing the officers, is inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence," Omalu said at a news conference with family attorney Benjamin Crump.
He said it was not clear if Clark would have survived had he gotten immediate medical attention.
Sacramento police responded with a brief statement that said the department had not yet received an official autopsy report from the Sacramento County coroner's office. It said the coroner's death investigation is independent from the investigation being conducted by police and the state Department of Justice.
A day after the March 18 shooting, police distributed a press release that said the officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."
Police video of the shooting doesn't clearly capture all that happened after Clark ran into his grandmother's backyard. He initially moved toward the officers, who are peeking out from behind a corner of the house, but it's not clear he's facing them or that he knows they are there when they open fire after shouting "gun, gun, gun."
After 20 shots, officers call to him, apparently believing he might still be alive and armed. They eventually approach and find no gun, just a cellphone.
The shooting has produced almost daily angry but peaceful protests in the downtown area of California's capital city.
About 200 protesters gathered Friday night at City Hall. They shouted "Hands up, Don't Shoot!" and Stand Up, Fight Back."
They also chanted the names of young black men who have been killed by police around the country.
Earlier, several hundred black residents gathered at a South Sacramento church for a community meeting focused on supporting black youth in the city.
Clark's death was highlighted, however, with Sacramento Kings player Garrett Temple telling the crowd that Clark "could have been any of us."
Teammate Vice Carter and former Kings player Doug Christie also attended.
Gov. Jerry Brown issued his first statement on the situation earlier Friday, calling it a tragic death that "raises a number of very serious questions and I support the California Attorney General's independent oversight of the investigation."
Police were called to the South Sacramento neighborhood on March 18 after a neighbor reported someone was breaking car windows. A police helicopter identified a suspect, who ran as police on the ground gave chase.
The helicopter video shows the two officers at the corner of Clark's grandmother's house and Clark on the backyard patio. He moves toward the officers' position as they peer around the corner and open fire.
Clark staggers sideways and falls on his stomach as officers continue shooting.
Omalu, whose study of a degenerative brain condition in football players prompted the NFL to adopt new safety rules designed to prevent concussions, said any of the six bullets that hit Clark in the back and one in the neck could have been the fatal shot. An eighth bullet went into Clark's thigh.
The autopsy was released a day after an emotional funeral service.  The Rev. Al Sharpton delivered the eulogy and praised demonstrators for their restraint and urged them to follow the lead of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and his advocacy of nonviolent protest.
Later in the day, police in riot gear stood waiting outside the Golden 1 Center as fans wove through barricades and fencing to enter a Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game. Twice since the shooting, demonstrators had blocked thousands of fans from entering the area.
But protesters never came to the arena Thursday night, heeding calls from Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, and Black Lives Matter organizers to avoid the arena.
Instead, they blocked rush hour traffic on nearby downtown streets.
The Kings and their owner have supported the family.
___
Associated Press reporters Kathleen Ronayne and Haven Daley in Sacramento and John Antczak and Brian Melley in Los Angeles contributed.
Last Thursday morning, the Harris County Sheriff’s Office in Texas issued Cameron Brewer a body camera, making him one of the last deputies in the department to receive one. But two hours later, the camera was off and still charging in his patrol car when he came upon a fight at a Houston intersection.
Within 30 seconds of arriving, Deputy Brewer had exited his car, confronted a man in the street whose pants were around his ankles and fatally shot him once in the chest. While the deputy’s body camera did not capture the shooting, the Sheriff’s Office released footage from his car’s dashboard camera on Monday that offered another angle of the encounter, which many in Houston had quickly criticized as a case of excessive force and the latest example of an officer killing an unarmed black person.
In the video, Deputy Brewer, who is black, stops his car behind two men having an altercation, with shoving, in the street. The deputy can be heard yelling at Danny Ray Thomas, the man whose pants were down, as he walks toward the car. “Get down, man! Get on the ground,” the deputy screams repeatedly, before, out of the camera’s view, a single gunshot rings out. Mr. Thomas, 34, was pronounced dead at a hospital.
On Monday night, Deputy Brewer declined to comment.
The shooting came in a month of renewed scrutiny and protests across the country over the use of force by the police. Hours after Mr. Thomas was killed on Thursday, hundreds of protesters flooded the streets of Sacramento, blockading the entrance of a sports arena, over the death of Stephon Clark, 22, who was shot by officers in his backyard on March 18.
Like those shot in certain other high-profile police encounters before them, both Mr. Thomas and Mr. Clark were black and unarmed, and their encounters were captured on video and spread widely on social media.
On Monday, the Harris County sheriff, Ed Gonzalez, vowed that the shooting would be fully investigated and said the department had released the dashboard video as a sign of its transparency. The Houston Police Department is leading the investigation of the shooting because it occurred within the city, but the sheriff’s department is conducting a separate administrative review, Sheriff Gonzalez said.
“We are going to take this very seriously,” Sheriff Gonzalez said at a news conference on Monday. “We are going to review all policies and procedures to see how we can continue to be better and learn from these situations.”
Deputy Brewer, who joined the sheriff’s department in 2016, was placed on routine administrative leave after the shooting.
Sheriff Gonzalez said that Deputy Brewer was equipped with a Taser, which he did not use. The sheriff said that deputies had been trained on the use of nonlethal force, including during encounters with people who may have a mental illness.
Relatives of Mr. Thomas told The Houston Chronicle last week that he suffered from depression and that two of his children were drowned in August 2016. The children’s mother has been charged with capital murder. “Knowing that he was O.K. when I woke up every day made me fine,” his sister, Marketa Thomas, told reporters on Thursday. “We’d been through everything together.”
RALEIGH, N.C. —  A North Carolina sheriff's office can't prove a compelling reason to keep evidence secret while it fights a lawsuit alleging a pattern of excessive force that culminated in a deputy fatally shooting a man at his home, a group of media outlets argued.
A lawyer for the news outlets filed a motion to intervene in the case late Thursday, asking the federal judge to unseal deposition transcripts and other evidence. The group includes The News & Observer, The Fayetteville Observer, WRAL-TV, WTVD-TV and The Associated Press.
The underlying lawsuit was brought by plaintiffs including the mother of John David Livingston, who was fatally shot in 2015 by a Harnett County deputy. Others allege excessive force in separate instances.
The media outlets argue the public has an interest in seeing evidence that shows how the law enforcement agency operated. They argue the defendants, who include deputies and sheriff's officials, can't prove there's a compelling reason to shield the information from public view.
The evidence is "of heightened concern to the public because government actors are the defendants," lawyer Amanda Martin wrote. "Despite the importance of this case, the defendants seek to seal the essential portions of the record."
Martin said the newspapers and television stations have no legal interest in the outcome of the case and are only acting to protect the public's right to transparency.
Lawyers for the sheriff's office asked a judge earlier this month to keep affidavits and transcripts from several law enforcement officials under seal, arguing that they include confidential records related to criminal investigations.
Livingston was 33 in November 2015 when deputies looking for another man arrived at his Lillington home with no warrant to ask about the other person, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit contends one of the deputies provoked an altercation that ended with him shooting Livingston multiple times at close range.
The deputy, Nicholas Kehagias, has said he feared for his life and that Livingston grabbed for his stun gun. A grand jury declined to indict Kehagias, who has resigned from the sheriff's office.
A News & Observer investigative series helped bring attention to Livingston's death.
Lawyers for the sheriff's office argue in court documents that Livingston engaged in hostile and aggressive acts that caused the deputy's response. They said other plaintiffs similarly provoked deputies and deny a pattern of excessive force.
___
QUEBEC CITY —  The man accused in the slayings of six men at a Quebec City mosque asked for forgiveness Wednesday after changing his mind and pleading guilty.
Alexandre Bissonnette faced six charges of first-degree murder and six of attempted murder from a shooting rampage during evening prayers at the Islamic Cultural Centre in January 2017. More than 50 people were at the center, and six men aged between 39 and 60 were killed.
"Every minute of my existence I bitterly regret what I did, the lives I have destroyed, the pain and suffering I have caused to so many people, without forgetting the members of my own family," Alexandre Bissonnette said as he read out a letter in court. "I am ashamed of what I did."
The 28-year-old spoke to the court shortly after a judge accepted his guilty pleas. Many people in the courtroom burst out sobbing and held hands as the judge confirmed the guilty pleas.
Bissonnette originally pleaded not guilty to the 12 charges during a court appearance Monday morning but a few hours later announced he wanted to plead guilty.
Superior Court Justice Francois Huot refused to accept the pleas Monday afternoon pending a psychiatric assessment of the accused to ensure he fully understood the consequences of his decision. Huot placed a publication ban on the Monday afternoon proceedings. He accepted the 12 guilty pleas Wednesday.
The fact Bissonnette was never charged with any terrorism-related counts angered many people, particularly those in the Muslim community. On Wednesday, the accused addressed the terrorism angle.
"Despite what has been said about me, I am neither a terrorist nor an Islamophobe," he told the court. "Rather, I am someone who was overcome by fear, by negative thoughts and a sort of horrible kind of despair."
On Monday, Bissonnette said he wanted to plead guilty in order to "avoid a trial and for the victims to not have to relive this tragedy."
Bissonnette told the judge then that he had been thinking for some time of pleading guilty but that he was missing certain pieces of evidence, which were relayed Sunday.
When Huot asked him if he was fully aware of what he was doing, Bissonnette replied, "Yes."
Huot asked Bissonnette whether he knew he would be getting a life sentence and he answered, "I understand."
Huot also asked if he understood he could receive consecutive sentences, meaning 150 years of prison.
"I know," Bissonnette replied in a low voice.
Psychiatrist Sylvain Faucher said Bissonnette "is fit to stand trial and to plead what he wants to plead."
"He did not want to be the perpetrator of another collective drama," said Faucher, who met with Bissonnette on Monday evening.
Many members of Quebec City's Muslim community were present in court Monday and Wednesday.
Amir Belkacemi, whose 60-year-old father, Khaled Belkacemi, was among those killed, said no one wanted to live the trauma again.
"That the trial won't have to take place, it's a good thing for us, it's a good thing for everyone in the community," Amir Belkacemi told reporters. "Very relieved."
Jury selection had been scheduled to start April 3 and the trial to last two months.
Sentencing arguments will take place at a later date.
Those who monitor extremist groups in Quebec described Bissonnette, a French-Canadian university student, as someone who took extreme nationalist positions at Laval University and on social media. He was a supporter of French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and U.S. President Donald Trump.
MACON, Ga. —  A Georgia woman charged with shooting a teenage boy in the head as he and friends were near her house has pleaded guilty in the case.
The Telegraph reports lawyers announced Monday that 48-year-old Elisabeth Faye Cannon would plead guilty, just as jury selection in her case was to begin.
Cannon was accused of shooting and critically wounding then-15-year-old Vernon Marcus Jr. in January 2017. Cannon told investigators she fired shots intending to scare people away and didn't mean to shoot them. Investigators say she'd previously reported people throwing rocks at her house and vowed to shoot them if they returned.
She faces up to 20 years for aggravated assault at sentencing next week.
Vernon Marcus Sr. says his son is slowly recovering and "beginning to talk a little better."
___
Information from: The Telegraph, http://www.macontelegraph.com
SAN FRANCISCO —  Video from the body camera of a wounded policeman shows officers in a shootout inside a barbershop that left a gunman dead and five people injured.
Footage from the March 21 shootout was released Thursday night at a police town hall meeting.
The two-minute video from the injured officer shows the confrontation that took place inside the Amazon Barber Shop with 21-year-old Jehad Eid, who later died at a hospital.
Police told the town hall audience that officers received reports that Eid had been threatening his family, flashed a gun from under his jacket and tried to break into the garage of a home on Amazon Avenue.
Arriving officers were told that Eid had gone to the barbershop. The uniformed male officer wearing the camera and a female officer in plainclothes who didn't have a camera went inside.
They found Eid sitting inside but he stood up and shot at the officers, who fired back, police said.
Video from the uniformed officer's point of view shows him walking into the barbershop and then seconds later falling to the ground wounded. He fires his gun and reloads. The plainclothes officer also has pulled a gun and is crouched behind a barber's chair.
Sound only kicks in after the first shots have been fired.
An unseen man in the back of the shop can be heard repeatedly shouting, "I got kids, I got kids, I got kids here," referring to children who were reportedly eating pizza in the back of the building, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
Also heard is someone reporting "we have an officer down" and the plainclothes officer screaming: "Put your hands up" as the fallen Eid moves feebly.
There is blood and a shell casing on the floor by the officer, who was shot in the leg. He is later heard saying "I'm hit."
He crawls out the door with help from a sergeant and is asked where the suspect is.
"He's on the ground," he says.
Police said Eid fired nine shots from a .40-caliber handgun. The two officers fired 26 bullets and Eid was struck 18 times, police said.
Video from another officer who dashed into the shop after the shooting shows customers racing out and Eid bleeding while lying on his back behind a barber's chair. A third video , taken from a police dashboard camera, shows officers outside taking cover behind cars as the fusillade of shots rang out.
In addition to the officer, four people in the barbershop were struck or grazed by gunfire, including a teenage boy who was shot in the foot.
The shooting is under investigation by the police department and the district attorney's office.
NASHVILLE —  A man accused of killing a woman in a September 2017 shooting rampage at a Tennessee church pleaded not guilty to the crime on Wednesday, his defense attorney said.
Emanuel Kidega Samson, 26, entered the plea in a Davidson County criminal court on the 43-count indictment for the shooting at the Nashville church, in which six others were injured, attorney Jennifer Thompson told Reuters by telephone. She declined further comment.
The charges, which were handed down in an indictment by a Davidson County grand jury last week, include murder, civil rights intimidation and 24 counts of aggravated assault.
Stephen Hayslip, spokesman for the Davidson County District Attorney General's office in Nashville, confirmed the details of proceedings in the Nashville courtroom, but declined further comment. No date has been set yet for Samson's trial.
Samson is charged with walking into Burnette Chapel Church of Christ on Sept. 24, 2017 wearing a ski mask and opening fire, Nashville police have said. An usher grappled with the suspect and eventually retrieved a gun from his vehicle and held at bay the suspect, who had shot himself in the chest, until police arrived.
A churchgoer, Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tennessee, was fatally shot in the parking lot, where she was found lying next to the suspect's blue SUV.
About 50 people were worshipping at the church when the gunman entered, police said. Samson was armed with two pistols and had another handgun and a rifle in his sport utility vehicle, police said.
Church members said Samson, who is black, attended the church in the past, police said.
A note in Samson's car indicated he may have been seeking revenge for the fatal 2015 shootings at Emanuel AME church, a historic African-American house of worship in Charleston, South Carolina, The Tennessean newspaper previously reported. Police have not confirmed such a note was found.
(Reporting by Tim Ghianni; Editing by Ben Klayman and Frances Kerry)
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Louisiana's attorney general plans to meet Tuesday with relatives of a black man who was shot and killed by a white Baton Rouge police officer to inform them whether his office will charge either of the two officers involved in the deadly struggle, according to two family lawyers.
Attorney General Jeff Landry's spokeswoman declined comment. However, attorneys L. Chris Stewart and Brandon DeCuir, who represent Alton Sterling's five children, said Landry is to meet Tuesday morning with Sterling's relatives and their lawyers in Baton Rouge.
Landry will provide an "update" on his office's investigation of Sterling's July 2016 shooting death during a news conference later Tuesday morning, the attorney general's office said.
The U.S. Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges in the case nearly 11 months ago.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but Lake didn't fire his gun.
Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, leading to protests at which nearly 200 people were arrested. The officers' body cameras and a store surveillance camera also recorded the encounter, but those videos haven't been released.
Federal authorities opened a civil rights investigation immediately after the shooting and released their findings in May 2017. They said Salamoni yelled that Sterling was reaching for a gun in his pocket before shooting him three times, and then fired three more shots into Sterling's back when he began to sit up and move. The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket.
The officers encountered Sterling after responding to a report of a man with a gun outside the Triple S Food Mart. The officers told Sterling to put his hands on the hood of a car and struggled with him when he didn't comply, the Justice Department said. Lake shocked Sterling with a stun gun before the officers wrestled him to the ground, according to federal investigators.
In June 2017, lawyers for Sterling's five children filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city of Baton Rouge, its police department and former police chief, and the two officers involved. Their suit alleges the shooting fit a pattern of racist behavior and excessive force by the Baton Rouge police. It also claims poor training and inadequate police procedures led to Sterling's death.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Video from the body camera of a wounded policeman shows officers in a shootout inside a barbershop that left a gunman dead and five people injured.
Footage from the March 21 shootout was released Thursday night at a police town hall meeting.
The two-minute video from the injured officer shows the confrontation that took place inside the Amazon Barber Shop with 21-year-old Jehad Eid, who later died at a hospital.
Police told the town hall audience that officers received reports that Eid had been threatening his family, flashed a gun from under his jacket and tried to break into the garage of a home on Amazon Avenue.
Arriving officers were told that Eid had gone to the barbershop. The uniformed male officer wearing the camera and a female officer in plainclothes who didn't have a camera went inside.
They found Eid sitting inside but he stood up and shot at the officers, who fired back, police said.
Video from the uniformed officer's point of view shows him walking into the barbershop and then seconds later falling to the ground wounded. He fires his gun and reloads. The plainclothes officer also has pulled a gun and is crouched behind a barber's chair.
Sound only kicks in after the first shots have been fired.
An unseen man in the back of the shop can be heard repeatedly shouting, "I got kids, I got kids, I got kids here," referring to children who were reportedly eating pizza in the back of the building, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
Also heard is someone reporting "we have an officer down" and the plainclothes officer screaming: "Put your hands up" as the fallen Eid moves feebly.
There is blood and a shell casing on the floor by the officer, who was shot in the leg. He is later heard saying "I'm hit."
He crawls out the door with help from a sergeant and is asked where the suspect is.
"He's on the ground," he says.
Police said Eid fired nine shots from a .40-caliber handgun. The two officers fired 26 bullets and Eid was struck 18 times, police said.
Video from another officer who dashed into the shop after the shooting shows customers racing out and Eid bleeding while lying on his back behind a barber's chair. A third video , taken from a police dashboard camera, shows officers outside taking cover behind cars as the fusillade of shots rang out.
In addition to the officer, four people in the barbershop were struck or grazed by gunfire, including a teenage boy who was shot in the foot.
The shooting is under investigation by the police department and the district attorney's office.
QUEBEC CITY —  The man accused in the slayings of six men at a Quebec City mosque asked for forgiveness Wednesday after changing his mind and pleading guilty.
Alexandre Bissonnette faced six charges of first-degree murder and six of attempted murder from a shooting rampage during evening prayers at the Islamic Cultural Centre in January 2017. More than 50 people were at the center, and six men aged between 39 and 60 were killed.
"Every minute of my existence I bitterly regret what I did, the lives I have destroyed, the pain and suffering I have caused to so many people, without forgetting the members of my own family," Alexandre Bissonnette said as he read out a letter in court. "I am ashamed of what I did."
The 28-year-old spoke to the court shortly after a judge accepted his guilty pleas. Many people in the courtroom burst out sobbing and held hands as the judge confirmed the guilty pleas.
Bissonnette originally pleaded not guilty to the 12 charges during a court appearance Monday morning but a few hours later announced he wanted to plead guilty.
Superior Court Justice Francois Huot refused to accept the pleas Monday afternoon pending a psychiatric assessment of the accused to ensure he fully understood the consequences of his decision. Huot placed a publication ban on the Monday afternoon proceedings. He accepted the 12 guilty pleas Wednesday.
The fact Bissonnette was never charged with any terrorism-related counts angered many people, particularly those in the Muslim community. On Wednesday, the accused addressed the terrorism angle.
"Despite what has been said about me, I am neither a terrorist nor an Islamophobe," he told the court. "Rather, I am someone who was overcome by fear, by negative thoughts and a sort of horrible kind of despair."
On Monday, Bissonnette said he wanted to plead guilty in order to "avoid a trial and for the victims to not have to relive this tragedy."
Bissonnette told the judge then that he had been thinking for some time of pleading guilty but that he was missing certain pieces of evidence, which were relayed Sunday.
When Huot asked him if he was fully aware of what he was doing, Bissonnette replied, "Yes."
Huot asked Bissonnette whether he knew he would be getting a life sentence and he answered, "I understand."
Huot also asked if he understood he could receive consecutive sentences, meaning 150 years of prison.
"I know," Bissonnette replied in a low voice.
Psychiatrist Sylvain Faucher said Bissonnette "is fit to stand trial and to plead what he wants to plead."
"He did not want to be the perpetrator of another collective drama," said Faucher, who met with Bissonnette on Monday evening.
Many members of Quebec City's Muslim community were present in court Monday and Wednesday.
Amir Belkacemi, whose 60-year-old father, Khaled Belkacemi, was among those killed, said no one wanted to live the trauma again.
"That the trial won't have to take place, it's a good thing for us, it's a good thing for everyone in the community," Amir Belkacemi told reporters. "Very relieved."
Jury selection had been scheduled to start April 3 and the trial to last two months.
Sentencing arguments will take place at a later date.
Those who monitor extremist groups in Quebec described Bissonnette, a French-Canadian university student, as someone who took extreme nationalist positions at Laval University and on social media. He was a supporter of French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and U.S. President Donald Trump.
WASHINGTON —  A doctored animation and photo have surfaced online appearing to show one of the survivors of the Florida high school shooting tearing up the U.S. Constitution.
The image of Emma Gonzalez was doctored from a March 23 "Teen Vogue" story in which she ripped up a shooting range target. The publication's editors pointed out the fake image on Twitter.
The doctored animation and news stories about it were shared nearly 70,000 times on social media.
Supporters of the Second Amendment pointed to the image as evidence that gun control supporters are going too far.
Gun control supporters expressed outrage when the image was shown to be fake.
Gonzalez spoke with other Parkland, Florida, students on Saturday at a protest in Washington to demand action on gun control.
FLORENCE, S.C. —  Video from a police shooting in South Carolina shows a volunteer officer firing as many as eight shots at a car as the driver hits a police cruiser and then drives away from a traffic stop.
The driver who was shot and wounded by a constable in Florence was released from the hospital two days later.
Firing at a moving car is strongly discouraged by training mandated for full-time officers in the state.
It typically takes months or years for police shooting videos to be released in South Carolina. However, Florence Mayor Stephen Wukela said "the whole incident is troubled" and asked his police department to release the video in an effort to be as open with the public as possible about the encounter.
Wukela and Florence's police chief also immediately sought to clear the city of responsibility, saying the officer with Constable Christopher Bachochin and a second officer who came to help did not fire.
The video "speaks for itself," Wukela said.
The two body cameras worn by the officers and a dashboard camera show the officers pulling a man over. After asking for his information, they tell him to get out of his car because they smell marijuana. As he refuses and argues with them, Bachochin slowly walks around the back of the car. The driver, who is black, takes a drag from his cigarette and puts his car in reverse. By that time, Bachochin is standing beside the car.
Bachochin, who is white, is seen quickly taking a few steps back from the driver's side of the car and firing several shots. One of the police officers was on the passenger's side. The car hits a police cruiser, pauses then drives away.
"Yeah. That (obscenity) about ran me over," Bachochin said, after another officer asked if he was OK.
Bachochin later said he was worried the car was going to swing around and hit one of the officers. An officer who searched the car says on a video that no weapon was found.
The State Law Enforcement Division is investigating the shooting. The agency also helps create training requirements for full-time officers in South Carolina. It says there's almost never a reason to fire on a moving car if an officer can step out of the way because it's a hard target to hit, a wounded driver could lose control and bullets could strike others nearby.
Constables are volunteer officers who get less than a fifth of the training that regular police officers get. Instead of being trained by state police, they take about 85 hours of classes at local community colleges, said Thom Berry, a spokesman for the state law enforcement agency.
Constables can be armed, but lack arrest power under South Carolina law unless working under the supervision of a law enforcement agency, Berry said.
Bachochin was riding along with the Florence officer to keep his certification up to date, Wukela said. The constable did not return a message left at a phone listing for him.
The officers pulled the driver over after he briefly went left of center, according to the videos. The driver said he had just bought the car and didn't have a permanent license plate.
Florence County Solicitor Ed Clements said it was likely the wounded driver would at least face charges of failing to stop for police. His name has not been released and his injuries have not been detailed.
Because of a conflict of interest, Clements said he would let the state attorney general's office decide whether to prosecute Bachochin once the State Law Enforcement Division investigation into the shooting is finished.
The prosecutor said he didn't want to say if it looked like the shooting was justified or not, because he has turned the case over to someone else.
"The best thing for me to do now is to keep my feelings to myself," Clements told The Associated Press.
A family spokesman for the wounded man said he was not ready for his name to be made public, but expected his family to release a statement or speak to reporters later this week.
Police shooting videos typically aren't made public in South Carolina until cases go to trial or are resolved or prosecutors decide not to charge the officers. Clements said he wished the city would have waited.
Wukela said he decided hours after the shooting to release the videos as soon as he could because he thought it was important to be transparent. Florence is nearly evenly split between black and white residents.
"That's the way you build the trust of a community," Wukela said.
___
Information from: The Post and Courier, http://www.postandcourier.com
MIAMI —  Fox News personality Laura Ingraham got a quick reaction from her advertisers after she criticized one of the Florida school shooting survivors on social media. Some of them dropped her.
Ingraham, tweeted, "David Hogg Rejected By Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it."
Hogg, a student who survived the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, tweeted a list of a dozen advertisers and encouraged followers to call them and ask them to drop Ingraham. Hogg has faced intense criticism from right-wing conservatives and gun advocates who have falsely called him a crisis actor following the Valentine's Day shooting in Parkland that killed 17.
Companies such as Nestle, Wayfair, TripAdvisor and Rachel Ray's dog food Nutrish all said they are removing their support from Ingraham.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police (all times local):
10 p.m.
About 200 protesters have gathered in Sacramento to condemn the police shooting of an unarmed black man.
Demonstrators gathered Friday night at City Hall, chanting the names of black men who have died in police shootings around the country.
It's the fourth day in a series of angry but peaceful protests following the March 18 shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark by Sacramento police.
Earlier in the day, a pathologist hired by attorneys for Clark's family said an autopsy found he was shot eight times — including seven times in the back.
Police have said Clark was facing officers, who thought he had a gun.
___
11:37 a.m.
A pathologist hired by attorneys for the family of an unarmed man killed by Sacramento police says an independent autopsy shows Stephon Clark was shot seven times from behind and took up to 10 minutes to die.
Dr. Bennet Omalu told reporters Friday that Clark was shot in the right back side of the neck and had a cluster of wounds in the upper right side of his back.
The pathologist says any one of those wounds would have been fatal, and death would have taken three to 10 minutes.
Police have said Clark was facing and advancing toward officers who thought he had a gun when they fired, and then could not approach Clark for five minutes.
The pathologist says Clark also suffered an eighth gunshot wound to the thigh that occurred as he was falling or already on the ground.
___
11:30 a.m.
The brother of an unarmed black man killed by police is helping diffuse tension in California's capital city by asking protesters not to keep disrupting a downtown NBA arena.
Protesters heeded the calls by Stevante Clark on Thursday not to block fans from entering the Sacramento Kings arena as they had for two previous games. They instead protested for several hours on downtown streets nearby, blocking cars during rush hour.
Stevante Clark's calls came just hours after an emotional display at the funeral for his 22-year-old brother, Stephon Clark. He was killed March 18 by police responding to a call of someone breaking car windows. The police say officers thought Stephon Clark had a gun, but he only had a cellphone.
The family's attorney, Ben Crump, will on Friday release results of an independent autopsy.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Autopsy findings by a pathologist hired by the family of Stephon Clark call into question the Sacramento Police Department's assertion that Clark was facing the two officers and advancing toward them when they opened fire and killed him.
Video from Sacramento police officers' body cameras and a Sheriff's Department helicopter circling overhead show Clark's final moments but don't definitively answer the many questions that have arisen since the March 18 shooting.
Police said they were responding to reports that a man dressed in a hooded sweatshirt was breaking car windows. The helicopter video begins with a figure scaling a backyard fence.
"He just broke the window, running south, running to the south," says a deputy in the helicopter. The video does not show the figure break a window but police say a neighbor's sliding glass door was broken.
The suspect then approaches a vehicle parked alongside Clark's grandparents' house and appears to look inside.
The aerial video shows two police officers running up to the side of the house, one with an arm extended holding a handgun, as the man later determined to be Clark disappears from view into the backyard.
The two officers can be seen coming around the back corner of the house then retreating to the side of the home.
"Show me your hands — gun!" one officer yells, according to the body camera footage . It is dark and the body cameras briefly show the backyard with portions illuminated by the officers' flashlights, but Clark is not clearly visible in the body camera videos.
"Gun, gun, gun," one of the officers yells on body camera video before they begin shooting.
As Clark comes back into view from the circling helicopter, he appears to be moving toward the officers as the first visible muzzle flash is seen. He falls forward and to the side, catches himself on his outstretched arms and hands, crawls forward briefly then collapses on top of his hands.
It is not clear when he was first hit or if officers fired before the first visible muzzle flash, but the video shows the officers continue to shoot as Clark lies face down unmoving.
Dr. Bennet Omalu, the pathologist hired by Clark's family, watched the helicopter video after conducting his autopsy and said the video is consistent with his findings.
Omalu said Clark was likely facing the house when he was first shot, with the bullet hitting him on the back left side of his torso. The propulsion of the bullet would have been enough to spin his body around so his back was facing the officers, Omalu said, before being hit by subsequent bullets that dropped him to the ground.
He was then shot in the leg, either as he fell or while on the ground, Omalu said.
The 20 shots were fired in about five seconds and Clark makes no discernable movement once the shooting stops.
Omalu said any of the six bullets that hit Clark in the back and one in the neck could have been the fatal shot. An eighth bullet went into Clark's thigh.
Omalu said Clark's death was not instantaneous and likely took between three and 10 minutes. Police approached the body after about five minutes.
It's familiar ground for attorney Benjamin Crump — addressing reporters alongside grieving relatives of unarmed black men killed by police.
With each death, the Tallahassee, Florida, attorney has helped lead community demands against a legal system that some believe is blind and deaf to blacks seeking justice.
With Crump leading the way, Trayvon Martin's parents settled a wrongful death lawsuit against a homeowners association in Florida, where Martin was killed by a white neighborhood watch captain.
The lawyer also helped Michael Brown's family reach a financial settlement with the city of Ferguson, Missouri, after Brown was slain by a white police officer.
Now, he is in Sacramento with the family of 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot eight times by police in the backyard of his grandparents' home.
The officers were responding to a report of someone breaking car windows and opened fire because they thought the 22-year-old Clark was pointing a handgun at them. Only a cellphone was found nearby.
"No family should have to endure this pain and suffering as they try to seek answers for an execution of their loved one who was only holding a cellphone," Crump, flanked by members of Clark's family, said at a news conference. Mostly peaceful protests have followed the shooting.
Police have said officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."
Crump was not available for an interview with The Associated Press but said during the March 26 news conference that Clark's death "is reminiscent of so many police shootings of unarmed black and brown people."
"We will fight for Stephon until we get justice for Stephon," he said.
By taking on police and communities in wrongful death and brutality cases, Crump has become a "voice for the voiceless," according to Sean Walton, a Columbus, Ohio-based attorney who also represents families in lawsuits involving police.
"Ben Crump has been a pioneer for his ability to generate attention to matters that normally get swept under the rug," Walton said. "We're actually doing what we can to convince local prosecutors to bring charges against police officers."
Crump is best known for representing the families of Martin and Brown.
Martin, 17, was shot to death in 2012 in Sanford, Florida, by white neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman, who was later acquitted of all charges.
Brown, 18, was killed by white Ferguson officer Darren Wilson, who was cleared of wrongdoing and later resigned.
Both Martin and Brown were unarmed. Crump said Brown "was executed in broad daylight."
Crump also represents the family of Terence Crutcher, 40, who was shot to death by white Tulsa, Oklahoma, police officer Betty Jo Shelby. Police video showed Crutcher, who was unarmed, walking away from officers and toward his SUV with his hands up when he was shot. A jury found Shelby not guilty of first-degree manslaughter.
Crutcher's estate has filed a civil rights lawsuit against Tulsa, Shelby and other police officers.
"I applaud his tenacity," Crutcher's father, the Rev. Joey Crutcher, said of Crump. "We needed to have a hard-hitting blow from somebody."
Some attorneys who take high-profile cases walk a tight line between representing clients and adhering to ethics, according to Michael Downey of the Downey Law Group in St. Louis, Missouri.
Most states have rules to ensure lawyers don't do things outside the courtroom that harms the process inside court, said Downey who teaches courses on legal ethics.
""It has certainly become more common for lawyers to be engaged in aggressive behavior," he said. "The vast majority of them are trying to do civil things — trying to increase the recovery by settlement or judgment."
A 2016 survey of police officers by the Washington-based Pew Research Center shows a significant number of departments have taken steps to reform policies involving interactions between citizens and police, said Rich Morin, Pew senior editor.
"We do know police behavior has changed — some good. Some, depending on the interpretation, not so good," he said.
Morin said nine out of 10 officers reported being concerned about their safety, but three-quarters were reluctant to use force. About three-quarters of people in a separate survey said interactions with police and black residents have become more tense.
"Many said police now are less willing to stop and question people who seem suspicious," he said. "On one hand, you can say 'great! Police aren't rousting folks just for sport.' On the other hand, some will say the police are reluctant to do their jobs these days."
Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department opened investigations into the slayings of Martin, Brown and Crutcher. However, President Donald Trump's administration has said Clark's death is a local issue.
"It is a clear signal to the base, which Trump has been careful about, that he is going to take the side of police in these kinds of matters and is not going to criticize them or hold them to great scrutiny," said Nicholas Valentino, an associate professor of communication studies and political science at the University of Michigan.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. —  The suspect in the Florida high school shooting that killed 17 is getting letters of support in jail including fan mail and pictures of scantily-clad women in addition to hundreds of dollars in contributions to his commissary account.
Teenage girls, women and men are sending letters and photographs of themselves and Facebook groups have been started to discuss how to help Nikolas Cruz, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel reports.
Cruz is charged in the killings of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, and is being held in the Broward County Jail. Prosecutors said they are seeking the death penalty.
The newspaper obtained copies of letters, including one from a woman who called Cruz "beautiful" and others with suggestive photos.
Cruz, who is on suicide watch, has not seen any of the letters, which are opened by the jail.
On March 15, a teenager sent a letter from Texas inside an envelope with happy faces and hearts.
"I'm 18-years-old. I'm a senior in high school. When I saw your picture on the television, something attracted me to you," the letter stated. "Your eyes are beautiful and the freckles on your face make you so handsome."
Another letter told Cruz to "Hang in there and keep your head up" and another mailed six days after the shooting said "I reserve the right to care about you, Nikolas!"
Public Defender Howard Finkelstein, Cruz's lawyer, told the newspaper that his client has indeed received "piles of letters."
In addition, $800 has been deposited into a commissary account which can be used by inmates to buy snacks, radios and personal hygiene products.
"In my 40 years as public defender, I've never seen this many letters to a defendant," Finkelstein said. "Everyone now and then gets a few, but nothing like this."
Finkelstein said they have read a "few religious ones to him" but will not read him any fan letters or share any photographs.
"The letters shake me up because they are written by regular, everyday teenage girls from across the nation," he said.
___
Information from: Sun Sentinel , http://www.sun-sentinel.com/
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. —  The brother of the suspected Florida high school gunman pleaded no contest Thursday to trespassing on the campus where the deadly rampage occurred and was later released from jail after being sentenced to time served and six months of probation.
Circuit Judge Melinda Kirsch Brown also ordered Zachary Cruz, 18, to enroll in therapy, wear an ankle monitor and said he cannot possess firearms or ammunition. The judge also said Cruz must be tested to make sure he isn't consuming drugs or alcohol and must stay at least 1 mile from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School during probation. He can never visit the school again and must not contact any victims or their families.
He was arrested March 19 and held on $500,000 bond after police found him skateboarding at Stoneman Douglas after school, 33 days after his 19-year-old brother, Nikolas Cruz, is accused of killing 17 students and staff members and wounding 17 others during a Valentine's Day shooting. Broward sheriff's deputies say school officials had told him not to come on campus, but his attorney, Joseph Kimok, denied that.
His arrest created concern in the Stoneman Douglas community and caused Florida Gov. Rick Scott to order highway patrol troopers on campus to bolster already heightened security provided by the sheriff's office.
Zachary Cruz had spent the last 10 days in custody after his extraordinary bond was ordered by a different judge. The typical bond in Broward County for trespassing, a second-degree misdemeanor, is $25.
But this was not a typical trespassing case. Cruz, shackled at the wrists and ankles and wearing a tan prison jumpsuit, was led into court by six deputies Thursday as numerous reporters and TV cameras looked on.
Prosecutor Sarahnell Murphy announced a plea deal had been reached, the conditions were read and the judge asked if he understood. He softly replied, "Yes, ma'am." After the judge accepted his plea and pronounced sentence, Kimok read an apology from Cruz, saying he was sorry if he scared anyone by visiting the school.
"Zachary has experienced, and continues to experience, a trauma unlike anything any of us could imagine," Kimok told the judge. He pointed out that the Cruzes' mother died in November, forcing him to live with a guardian miles away. "Then in February, the only family member he had left, his brother, murdered 17 people in cold blood." That put Zachary Cruz's history, which has included counseling and calls about him to police, on national display, Kimok said.
Zachary Cruz was fingerprinted and the six deputies led him out. He was released from jail about four hours later.
After the hearing, Kimok called Zachary Cruz's 10-day detention on $500,000 bond for a trespassing charge "immoral and unconstitutional." He said there is no doubt that was done simply because of who his brother is and that no one else would have been arrested. The brothers attended Stoneman Douglas but did not graduate. Kimok said his client went skateboarding there because it was one of the few place he felt welcome.
"If they can do to Zachary what they did to him in the light of day in front of the national media, they can do it to anyone and that should scare all of us," Kimok said.
The brothers shared the same biological mother but had different fathers. Both were adopted at very young ages by Roger and Lynda Cruz. Lynda Cruz died in November and their father died some years earlier.
Murphy, the prosecutor, left court without comment.
The attorneys for Nikolas Cruz have admitted he committed the shooting and have said he would plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence. Prosecutors have said they will seek the death penalty.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  An autopsy on an unarmed black man killed by police officers in California's capital last week shows that none of the eight bullets hit him in the front, contradicting the official version of events, a lawyer for the deceased's family said on Friday.
Clark was hit six times in the back, once in the side and once in the leg, the independent autopsy found.
Benjamin Crump, an attorney for the family of Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old African-American killed in Sacramento on March 18, said the findings refuted police statements that the man had been moving toward officers in a menacing way when they fired.
"This independent autopsy affirms that Stephon was not a threat to police and was slain in another senseless police killing under increasingly questionable circumstances,” Crump said in a statement.
Clark's death was the most recent in a string of fatal shootings of black men by police that have triggered protests across the United States and fueled a national debate about bias in the American criminal justice system.
The Sacramento Police Department said in a statement that it would have no further comment on the case until after the release of the findings of an official autopsy by the county coroner, and a review by state and local prosecutors.
Dr. Bennet Omalu, the forensic pathologist who conducted the independent autopsy, said at a briefing that any one of seven bullets that entered the upper half of Clark's body could have killed him.
"Each of these bullets independently possessed a fatal capacity, meaning ... all he needed was one of the seven to die," said Omalu, a Nigerian-born physician best known for his research into chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in American football players.
Clark's shooting has sparked largely peaceful demonstrations in Sacramento. On several occasions over the last two weeks, protesters have marched, held demonstrations and twice blocked fans from reaching games played by the Sacramento Kings NBA basketball team at the Golden 1 Center.
Clark, a father of two, was gunned down in the backyard of his grandparents' house by police responding to a report that someone was breaking windows. Police said the officers who shot at Clark 20 times feared he was holding a firearm, but that he was later found to have been holding a cellphone.
The incident was captured in graphic detail in a body cam video released by the police on Wednesday.
"Prior to the shooting, the involved officers saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands," a police statement released on Monday read.
At the funeral service for Clark on Thursday, veteran civil rights leader the Reverend Al Sharpton said: "We're going to make Donald Trump and the whole world deal with the issue of police misconduct," referring to the president.
The service at a church in Sacramento came a day after White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters the shooting was a "local matter."
California Attorney General Xavier Becerra has said state investigators will oversee the investigation and review the police department's procedures and practices.
(Additional reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee; writing by Frank McGurty; editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Jonathan Oatis)
LOS ANGELES — John Weber was rummaging through old boxes the other day, looking for memories, when he found a bunch of old baseball and flag football trophies. He has kept other things, too, like a neatly pressed R.O.T.C. uniform, a reminder that he once hoped to steer his son, Anthony, to the Army and away from the streets.
“It’s all I’ve got left,” he said.
On Super Bowl Sunday, after rooting for the Patriots against the Eagles, Anthony Weber left a friend’s apartment to go for dinner with his girlfriend at The Kickin’ Crab, her favorite restaurant.
Around the same time, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department received a 911 call. A black man with a gun was threatening a motorist.
Soon, Anthony — a mixed race 16-year-old, was dead in a darkened courtyard of a run-down apartment complex, with no gun anywhere around.
Nearly two months later, with questions still unanswered, the spot is a makeshift memorial of candles, balloons, flowers, photographs, and placards from rallies. “Jail killer cops!” reads one. “No gun = no alibi = murder,” reads another.
Long before police shootings and protests in Ferguson, Mo., or Sacramento focused America’s attention on how the police treat black men, Los Angeles was a byword for police brutality and racism. Years of effort after the 1991 beating of Rodney King, the riots that followed, and later, the Rampart police corruption scandal, have succeeded in changing the culture of policing in the city to a great extent. There is less overt racism, many people in Los Angeles say, and police forces have been reshaped to better reflect the city’s diversity.
Yet to Anthony Weber’s family, to the Black Lives Matter activists drawn to the case, and to many residents of South Los Angeles, an area still rife with crime and poverty, his death and its aftermath are signs of how much more needs to change on their streets, and how the police can be too quick to use deadly force against black men.
“We are light-years from where we were, and light-years from where we need to be,” said Connie Rice, a civil rights lawyer who began suing the Los Angeles Police Department in the 1990s, and lately has worked with the department on new approaches to policing.
The neighborhood is not the South Los Angeles of the 1980s and 1990s, when gang wars and the crack epidemic were devastating many lives. Crime has fallen drastically, as it has in many big cities across America. There were more than 1,000 murders in a single year in the city of Los Angeles in the 1990s, but the rate today is less than 300 a year.
Even so, gangs are still ubiquitous, and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department has said that Anthony was involved with them, an allegation that has outraged activists.
“First they kill our bodies, then they kill our characters,” said Melina Abdullah, a professor at California State University, Los Angeles, and a Black Lives Matter organizer.
Anthony’s father said, “In South Central, everyone is associated with gangs — it’s just a part of being able to walk to school.” He said Anthony “associated” with neighborhood gang members but was “not a criminal gang member.”
By Mr. Weber’s own account, Anthony struggled. But his past, Mr. Weber said, was irrelevant to his killing.
Anthony’s mother, Demetra Johnson, said that her son “smoked and had a baby at 16,” but she maintained that “he was not a thug or killer, like they are trying to portray.”
She said she had always counseled her son, whom everyone called A.J., that on the streets, he would be regarded with suspicion by the police, especially if he was hanging out with a group of friends.
The sheriff’s department said that the deputies involved in the case believed Anthony had a gun, and that he had refused to obey an order to halt and had run away. When the deputies chased him, according to the department’s statement, Anthony “turned toward the deputies, and that was when a deputy-involved shooting occurred.”
No gun was found at the scene. The department said it must have been lost in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, possibly taken by a bystander.
“As you can imagine, until you are at one of these scenes, you don’t have an appreciation for just how chaotic they get, how dangerous potentially,” Sheriff Jim McDonnell told  KPCC, a public radio station, about the deputies’ failure to find a gun. “You don’t know which additional threats are in the environment, either,” the sheriff said.
But witnesses and the family’s lawyer, Gregory A. Yates, say the deputies secured the scene immediately, and that no one else had any chance to get close and grab a dropped gun.
Activists and members of Anthony Weber’s family say they have no doubt where things will end up: exoneration for the deputies, the details fading from public memory, and eventually, perhaps after years, a quiet payout to the family from the county.
In Los Angeles, law enforcement officers are rarely held criminally accountable for shootings. The last time a police officer in the city faced criminal charges for a shooting while on duty was in 2000; the shooting was not fatal and the officer pleaded no contest.
The 2014 shooting of Ezell Ford, an unarmed black man, by the Los Angeles Police Department, galvanized the local chapter of Black Lives Matter, but the officers were not charged. Mr. Ford’s family sued the city and received a $1.5 million settlement last year.
An officer involved in another controversial police shooting was cleared this month. The district attorney’s office declined to bring charges against the officer for killing an unarmed homeless man in the Venice neighborhood, even though the police department’s own investigation determined that the shooting was not justified and recommended criminal charges. The city reached a $4 million settlement with the victim’s family. Both the officer and victim were black.
The Venice case is emblematic of the broader frustrations of the Black Lives Matter movement over a lack of progress, despite national attention to the problem. “We’re absolutely frustrated,” Ms. Abdullah said. “I’m in a state of rage.”
Fatal shootings by police officers in the United States have held steady at roughly 1,000 a year over the last three years, according to a tally kept by The Washington Post. But there is no standardized federal database to track police shootings, despite repeated calls after the shooting in Ferguson to create such a system.
The latest incident to stir racial tensions and protests happened in Sacramento, where police officers shot and killed a young black man in his backyard who they thought was waving a gun. It turned out to be a cellphone.
Activists in Los Angeles say police shootings are still distressingly numerous. Last year, officers were involved in 78 shootings in Los Angeles County, down slightly from previous years, according to the Los Angeles district attorney. In New York, by comparison, there were 23 police shootings last year, the lowest total on record.
According to an investigation by KPCC, the public radio station, which pieced together data from a variety of sources, the number of shootings by law enforcement officers in Los Angeles County has remained roughly stable for the past 18 years. In the period from 2010 to 2014, the station found, 24 percent of the fatalities in those shootings were black, though black residents make up just 8 percent of the population.
Changes in police policy have built up “just enough fabric of trust to weather the shooting of a resident without a riot,” Ms. Rice said.
Anthony Weber’s death may not fit neatly into the familiar narrative of racially tinged police violence — of a white cop shooting a black man — but his case does fit the narrative of modern Los Angeles. Areas like South Los Angeles that were once predominantly African-American — and were the epicenter of uprisings against police abuses in 1965 and 1992 — have become increasingly Latino, and increasingly diverse. Anthony had a white father, a black mother and a Latino girlfriend.
Law enforcement in Los Angeles has also become more diverse: White males are now in the minority in both the police and the sheriff’s department, and Latino and black officers are represented on the force in proportions roughly mirroring the population at large.
But greater diversity has not ended longstanding police biases against black men, according to the shooting data as well as the perceptions of activists. “They shot him because he’s black!” was chanted by protesters at the first rally after Anthony Weber was killed.
“The last cop who put a boot in Rodney King’s face was black,” said Steven A. Lerman, a lawyer who represented Mr. King. “It doesn’t seem to be white versus black, but blue versus take-your-pick.”
The sheriff’s department has not disclosed the race or identity of the deputy who shot Anthony.
Sitting in the Weber family’s living room on a recent afternoon, surrounded by photographs of Anthony, were four generations of women. Mattie Johnson, Anthony’s grandmother, moved to Los Angeles in 1964 — a year before the Watts riots — hoping to escape the cruelties of segregation and racism in Birmingham, Ala. She recalled Ku Klux Klan marches and a church bombing there that killed four young black girls.
The women all considered Anthony’s death to be of a piece with the long arc of America’s history of racism.
If things had been different, Anthony Weber might have been the one behind the pulpit at the funeral the other day in South Los Angeles. He loved the music of the church, and he sure loved the spotlight.
“He was just a natural charmer,” said his mother, Demetra. “He wanted attention. Which could make him difficult, too. Trust me, I gave him attention. But he always wanted more.”
At his funeral, a former teacher called him her “wonder boy,” who worked hard to reach age 16. His sister spoke about the unfairness that “he never got the chance to be a man.”
Mixed with the grief and the music of R. Kelly and the O’Jays at the service, there were hints of anger, too.
“We’re having trouble finding out what happened to him,” his father said. “They’re not being transparent.”
Rodney Hilson, speaking from long experience as a pastor in South Los Angeles, said simply, “I’m tired of this.”
(Reuters) - The brother of suspected high school shooter Nikolas Cruz pleaded no contest on Thursday to a trespassing charge and will serve probation for visits he made to the Florida campus since the Feb. 14 massacre.
Zachary Cruz, 18, was sentenced to six months of probation and Broward County Judge Melinda Brown ordered him to keep at least a mile (1.6 km) from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, where authorities say his brother Nikolas Cruz fatally shot 17 people in a massacre that revived the national debate on gun control.
In a hearing broadcast online by Miami television station WSVN, Brown said Cruz must wear an ankle monitor, not use drugs or alcohol and not possess firearms or ammunition. He also is barred from contact with families of the school shooting.
Both Cruz brothers once attended Stoneman Douglas but neither graduated from there.
Zachary Cruz was arrested on March 19 after he visited Stoneman Douglas three times, even though school officials had told him to stay away. He had been held on $500,000 bond, which his attorneys argued was excessive.
His lawyer, Joseph Kimok, read a statement in which Cruz apologized for going to the school.
"Zach's visit to Stoneman Douglas was not to scare anybody," he said. "He went to make sense of this, nothing else."
Nikolas Cruz is charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder and 17 counts of attempted murder and faces the death penalty if convicted. He is being held at the same jail where his brother had been.
(Reporting by Ian Simpson; Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Bill Trott)
PARKLAND, Fla. —  As a team of volunteers began dismantling the sprawling display of balloons, flowers and teddy bears left in memory of the 17 people gunned down at a Florida high school, students and officials met Wednesday to talk about how to keep gun control in the spotlight after Saturday's marches.
Mounds of mementos surrounding 17 white crosses outside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School were being packed into boxes for storage. A friend helped Patricia Padauy sift through handwritten notes and tributes left to honor her slain son, Joaquin Oliver.
Objects from the memorial will be preserved in climate-controlled rooms for a future public exhibit on the anniversary of the Valentine's Day massacre.
Parkland Historical Society President Jeff Schwartz said the initial goal is to get the items indoors after more than a month of being exposed to sun, heat and rain. Flowers and plants will be composted; the other items will be catalogued and saved.
Just a few miles away, county and city officials announced a new organization to push for gun reform and to keep momentum going past Saturday's worldwide marches.
The group 17 For Change says its main goals are advocating for sensible gun laws, educating voters on gun reform and holding politicians accountable for how they vote and money they accept from the NRA and other gun lobbyists. The group spearheaded by the county's vice mayor includes a student panel with teens from various area schools.
Lori Alhadeff, whose daughter Alyssa was killed at Stoneman Douglas, read a haunting poem she'd written in her daughter's voice. Alhadeff has become an outspoken advocate for gun reform and helped successfully pass a new law in New Jersey. She's also leading a crusade to make schools safer, saying that should be the top priority ahead of state testing and even school grades.
"If one child dies on the school's watch, nothing else matters. That school has failed every student," she said.
Douglas juniors Adam Buchwald and Zach Hibshman are also asking every parent and grandparent in the nation to sign a contract promising to vote only for lawmakers who chose lives over guns and turn down money from the NRA. Saturday's marches were just the beginning, said 16-year-old Buchwald, one of the founders of Parents Promise To Kids.
"We are giving children a voice," Buchwald said. "If their parents sign this contract they will be heard in this election."
HOLLYWOOD, Md. —  Mourners have remembered the teenage girl who was shot when a classmate opened fire inside their Maryland high school.
The Baltimore Sun reports that the hundreds who attended Thursday's service for 16-year-old Jaelynn Willey watched a montage of her with her eight siblings and received a card inscribed with her "best ever" chocolate chip cookie recipe.
Willey was shot March 20 at Great Mills High School and died March 22. Her funeral program remembered the sophomore as "vibrant, beautiful and sweet." Her mother, Melissa Willey, spoke of holding her youngest child, as she did last week when she announced her daughter was brain-dead.
Willey's funeral is Friday. The interment will be private.
___
Information from: The Baltimore Sun, http://www.baltimoresun.com
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  California's attorney general joined an investigation on Tuesday into this month's killing by Sacramento police of an unarmed black man standing in his grandparents' backyard, a death that sparked street protests.
The slaying of Stephon Clark, 22, was the latest in a long string of fatal shootings of black men by police officers that have raised questions about race and justice in the United States and fueled the Black Lives Matter movement.
"Due to the nature of this investigation, the extremely high emotions, anger and hurt in our city, I felt it was (in) the best interest of our entire community ... to ask the attorney general to be an independent part of this investigation," Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn, the department's first black leader, said at a news conference.
Hours after the attorney general's announcement, protesters interrupted a city council meeting, chanting "Stephon Clark" as his brother Stevonte sat on the table in front of Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg, a video posted on the website of CBS News showed.
"The mayor and the city of Sacramento has failed all of you," his brother said to the crowded chamber.
Protesters then marched to Golden 1 Center, where the Sacramento Kings were about to tip off their NBA game against the Dallas Mavericks. They blocked the entrance and prevented many fans from entering the arena, much like they did last week, Sacramento media reported.
Two Sacramento officers, responding to a report of someone shattering car windows, shot Clark in his grandparents' backyard on the night of March 18. Clark was holding an object the officers believed was a firearm, but after he fell they only found a cell phone by his body, police said.
The family disputes police accounts that Clark was breaking car windows and plans to file a lawsuit against the city.
"We fully expect that the California Attorney General's Office will do a complete and thorough investigation that is fair and impartial," Benjamin Crump, the family's attorney, said in a statement.
California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said state investigators will act independently while overseeing the investigation, and will also review the Police Department's procedures and practices.
Sacramento police have not released the names of the two officers who opened fire, citing concerns about their safety. One officer is white and the other is black, and they have both been placed on leave, police said.
(Reporting by Peter Szekely in New York and Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Dan Grebler, Matthew Lewis and Paul Tait)
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  California's attorney general on Tuesday joined an investigation into this month's killing of an unarmed black man standing in his grandparents' backyard by Sacramento police, a death that sparked street protests.
The slaying of Stephon Clark, 22, was the latest in a long string of fatal shootings of black men by police officers that have raised questions about race and justice in the United States and fueled the Black Lives Matter movement.
"Due to the nature of this investigation, the extremely high emotions, anger and hurt in our city, I felt it was (in) the best interest of our entire community ... to ask the attorney general to be an independent part of this investigation," Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn, the department's first black leader, said at a news conference.
Local Black Lives Matter leaders said they were unimpressed by the move and planned a protest at the Sacramento County District Attorney's Office to call for the investigation to be conducted by the city's civilian Community Police Review Commission.
"The community needs to be the one that leads the investigation," Tanya Faison of the Sacramento branch of the Black Lives Matter movement said at a separate news conference.
Two Sacramento officers, responding to a report of someone shattering car windows, shot Clark in his grandparents' backyard the night of March 18. Clark was holding an object the officers believed was a firearm, but after he fell they only found a cell phone by his body, police said.
The family disputes police accounts that Clark was breaking car windows and plans to file a lawsuit against the city.
"We fully expect that the California Attorney General's Office will do a complete and thorough investigation that is fair and impartial," Benjamin Crump, the family's attorney, said in a statement.
California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said state investigators will act independently while overseeing the investigation, and will also review the Police Department's procedures and practices.
Sacramento police have not released the names of the two officers who opened fire, citing concerns about their safety. One officer is white and the other is black, and they both have been placed on leave, police said.
(Reporting by Peter Szekely in New York and Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Dan Grebler and Matthew Lewis)
A pair of white police officers in Baton Rouge, La., will not be prosecuted by the state authorities in a fatal shooting of a black man there almost two years ago, the latest example of how rarely law enforcement officers are prosecuted for violence against suspects.
The Louisiana attorney general, Jeff Landry, announced the decision at a news conference on Tuesday, almost 11 months after the Justice Department declined to bring charges in the death of the man, Alton B. Sterling. Mr. Landry’s decision was widely expected, in part because officers in numerous other cases across the country have been cleared of criminal liability for using deadly force against civilians in recent years.
The Baton Rouge officers were called to the Triple S Food Mart on July 5, 2016, to respond to a report that a black man had brandished a gun and threatened someone. The officers and the man, Mr. Sterling, 37, ended up in a confrontation that left Mr. Sterling dead, prompted large protests in Baton Rouge, the Louisiana capital, and broadened the national debate about law enforcement tactics and the influence of race on American policing. It also set off a retaliatory incident in which a man shot and killed two Baton Rouge police officers and a deputy sheriff.
The officers at the scene, Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II, face administrative punishment, including dismissal, as well as a lawsuit from the man’s family. On Tuesday, John S. McLindon, a lawyer for Mr. Salamoni, said he all but expected his client to be fired, and said he would likely appeal the decision. Mr. McLindon noted that the shooting had been determined to be justified by independent use of force experts, including two cited in the state and federal investigations.
“He did exactly what he was trained to do,” Mr. McLindon said.
A widely seen cellphone video of the encounter shows the officers holding down Mr. Sterling, who investigators said was armed and under the influence of drugs and alcohol, and at one point someone can be heard saying, “He’s got a gun! Gun!”
An officer immediately draws his weapon and, after some more shouting, what appear to be gunshots are heard. The camera points elsewhere, and there are more apparent gunshots. Officer Salamoni fired all of the rounds.
David A. Harris, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, noted that even video footage in seemingly egregious police abuse cases may not be enough to sway juries, noting that jurors deadlocked in the murder case of Michael T. Slager, a white North Charleston, S.C., police officer who was recorded shooting an unarmed black man, Walter L. Scott, in the back. (Mr. Slager later pleaded guilty to a federal civil rights charge.)
“The question is whether the force was excessive,” Professor Harris said, “and that brings in lots of other questions, like what were they fearing, what were they seeing, what did they know that we don’t know. And the Supreme Court has been very protective of the law enforcement position vis-à-vis the law.”
Philip Stinson, an associate professor in the criminal justice program at Bowling Green State University, has counted 85 nonfederal police officers since 2005 who have been arrested on murder or manslaughter charges related to an on-duty shooting in the United States. To date, he said, 32 of them have been convicted of a crime.
Another case is now unfolding in Sacramento, Calif., where Stephon Clark, 22, an unarmed black man, was shot 20 times by the police in his grandmother’s backyard on March 18. The California attorney general, Xavier Becerra, announced on Tuesday that he would step in to oversee the investigation.
Another video of the shooting of Mr. Sterling, filmed by the owner of the store, depicted the encounter from a different angle. That video showed one of the officers removing something from Mr. Sterling’s pocket. Witnesses later said they saw a handgun on the ground next to Mr. Sterling — the federal government said it was a loaded .38 caliber revolver — but his relatives said they were not aware that he owned a gun.
“As with every criminal case, we must analyze the evidence, the law and the facts and then draw a conclusion,” Mr. Landry said at a news conference. “But we are always mindful of the human element. I know the Sterling family is hurting. I know that they do not agree with this decision.”
Indeed, minutes after Mr. Landry’s announcement, members of the family and their lawyers, who had met with him earlier in the morning, held their own event in which they denounced the attorney general’s decision.
“It takes courage to have political office, it takes courage to be a prosecutor, it takes courage to fight for justice,” said one lawyer, L. Chris Stewart. “And we didn’t see that in this situation.”
Sandra Sterling, Mr. Sterling’s aunt, spoke at length from a wheelchair, criticizing the attorney general and the police. “Shame on him,” she said of Mr. Landry. She also repeatedly called out Officer Salamoni. “You took an oath to protect and serve, not to protect and kill,” she said.
Many in Baton Rouge have accused the officers, particularly Officer Salamoni, of engaging Mr. Sterling in such a way that an ugly confrontation was inevitable. Lawyers for the family have said that Mr. Sterling’s relatives were shown enhanced video and audio clips revealing that Officer Salamoni had said to Mr. Sterling, “I’ll kill you, bitch,” or something like it, as he put a gun to Mr. Sterling’s head.
When the Justice Department ended its review, there were renewed protests in Baton Rouge, but they were relatively muted compared with those the previous summer. It then fell to Mr. Landry to determine whether the state would bring any charges.
Mr. Landry, a Republican former congressman who was elected attorney general in 2015, noted that it was not his office’s role “to determine whether the Baton Rouge Police Department’s policy was followed, or if certain tactics or language was more appropriate than others.”
Officers Salamoni and Lake have been on paid leave since the shooting. On Tuesday, Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said the two officers would face administrative hearings later this week, asking the community to have “just a little more patience.”
Chief Paul was introduced, in his televised appearance, by Mayor Sharon Weston Broome, who chose him as chief late last year. Both the mayor and the chief are black, and Chief Paul has publicly shared a recollection of being subject to what he described as a dubious police stop when he was younger.
Ms. Weston Broome has previously said that she would like to see Officer Salamoni fired and Officer Lake disciplined, drawing a rebuke from the former chief, Carl Dabadie Jr., who said that any punishments must come after the officers were afforded due process.
On Tuesday, the mayor reminded residents of their right to protest, so long as it was peaceful.
As for the fate of the officers, she said, “We will now act swiftly and accordingly. I’m confident the chief will act expeditiously and fairly in his own investigation.”
MINGORA, Pakistan —  Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai visited her birthplace in Pakistan's Swat Valley on Saturday, bursting into tears as she entered her childhood home for the first time since a Taliban gunman shot her in 2012.
The 20-year-old told a family friend she planned to return home after completing her education at Oxford, where she is reading for a degree in politics, philosophy and economics.
Roads were blocked off in the town of Mingora as Yousafzai, known universally by her first name, flew in by military helicopter with her parents and brother.
Security was tight around her former home, now rented by a family friend, Farid-ul-Haq Haqqani, who has kept the young woman's room intact with her books, school trophies and luggage.
"They were weeping. They were kneeling on the ground. They were touching the mud with their eyes,” Haqqani said of Malala  and her family. He agreed to be interviewed inside the family home and pointed out a shelf in her room with books including Shakespeare's "Comedy of Errors" and "Romeo and Juliet" as well as a copy of the television series "Ugly Betty".
"I asked her when are you permanently coming back and she said 'God willing, when my education is completed, I will God willing come back to Pakistan.'"
He added that Malala chatted in her room with four friends from her school days in Swat, while her parents greeted neighbors who dropped by - since the security detail would not allow her to go to other houses or even up on the roof of her home.
Malala has been visiting Pakistan since Thursday, her first trip home since she was shot and airlifted abroad for treatment. The government and military have been providing security.
It had been uncertain whether she would be able to visit Swat, a scenic mountain region parts of which spent nearly two years under the control of Pakistani Taliban militants and their harsh interpretation of Islamic law, due to continued concerns for her safety.
"I miss everything about Pakistan ... from the rivers, the mountains, to even the dirty streets and the garbage around our house, and my friends and how we used to have gossip ...to how we used to fight with our neighbors," Malala told Reuters in an interview on Friday.
"I had never been so excited for anything. I've never been so happy before," she said of returning to Pakistan.
"WEAPON OF EDUCATION"
Two security officials told Reuters the trip to Swat would likely be just for one day.
Another family friend, Jawad Iqbal Yousafzai, who is from the same Pashtun clan as Malala, said the family also visited a local army cadet college.
The Pakistani army wrested control of Swat back from the Taliban in 2009 and the area remains mostly peaceful, but the militants still occasionally launch attacks, including one on the military a few weeks ago.
The Taliban claimed responsibility in 2012 for the attack on Yousafzai for her outspoken advocacy for girls' education, which was forbidden under the militants' rule over Swat.
She wrote an anonymous blog for the BBC Urdu service as a schoolgirl during the Taliban rule and later became outspoken in advocating more educational opportunities for girls.
In 2014, Malala became the youngest Nobel laureate, honored for her work with the Malala Foundation, a charity she set up to support education advocacy groups with a focus on Pakistan, Nigeria, Jordan, Syria and Kenya.
This month, a new girls' school built with her Nobel prize money opened in the village of Shangla in Swat Valley.
"The people of Swat and the whole of Pakistan are with Malala," Jawad Iqbal Yousafzai said.
"God willing, we will counter the terrorism and extremism in our region with the weapon of education, with the weapon of a pen, with the weapons of teachers and with the weapons of books."
Haqqani said Malala and her brother requested to be sent dried plums from a tree in the garden once they were harvested.
The family visit lasted about 90 minutes, he said.
"They were leaving the house slowly. They were dragging their feet. They were coming back inside again and again," he said.
(Writing by Kay Johnson; Editing by Kim Coghill)
One was Photoshopped tearing up the Constitution — a falsehood — and criticized for wearing a flag that represented her Cuban heritage.
A conservative blog said that another wasn’t even at the school during the killings — then had to backtrack on Monday when that also proved false.
The attacks on the teenage survivors of the shooting in Parkland, Fla., have been fierce from the beginning, and have only continued since the students helped spearhead hundreds of protests this weekend.
Two of the most vocal survivors, Emma González, 18, and David Hogg, 17, have been targets of a disproportionate amount of vitriol.
In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Hogg said they had been singled out because of their prominence and emphasized that ad hominem attacks would not end school shootings.
“I mean, we’re kind of the faces of the movement,” he said. “Together we kind of form an unstoppable force that terrifies them.”
He added that he and Ms. González were being attacked “because they know we’re strong.”
Here are a few of the recent attempts to discredit the students.
RedState, a conservative blog, ran an “update” Monday evening to a story it had published that questioned whether Mr. Hogg was present at Marjory Stoneman Douglas during the day of the shooting.
Sarah Rumpf, a writer for RedState, had questioned Mr. Hogg after watching an interview where he said he rode his bike to the school on the day of the shooting to interview his classmates.
The bike trip was described in a Vox article written in February. It indicated that Mr. Hogg had been at school during the shooting, as widely confirmed by many news organizations. He had left campus and then rode his bike back that evening to interview classmates.
Video has shown that Mr. Hogg was in a closet during the shooting. Ms. Rumpf eventually found the article and video, and apologized.
RedState struck through the old article, but did not describe the update as a correction, seeming to blame the misinformation on confusing reports elsewhere. The false report was spread by well-known conservatives, including Erick Erickson, who has contributed to The New York Times opinion section. Mr. Erickson later deleted his original tweet.
The doctored image of Ms. González ripping apart the Constitution of the United States, began to spread during the march on Saturday. It was falsified from a Teen Vogue image in which she was pictured ripping apart a paper shooting target.
The image, which exists in a gray area between meme and misinformation, was promoted on Gab, the alt-right alternative to Twitter, and by the right-wing actor Adam Baldwin.
Some claimed the image to be satire, and similar memes of President Trump and other political figures appear across the spectrum. But the political scientist Emily Thorson has pointed out that their spread contributes to a climate of misinformation, even if those who see the images understand them to be fake.
Steve King, the Republican congressman from Iowa, posted on Facebook about the Cuban flag sewn to Ms. González’s jacket.
“This is how you look when you claim Cuban heritage yet don’t speak Spanish,” the post said, “and ignore the fact that your ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens; hence their right to self-defense.” It showed an image of her with the flag patch visible on her jacket.
The post and similar ones angered other survivors of gun violence and even some of Mr. King’s fellow conservatives, who pointed out that the Cuban flag has long been used by dissidents from the Castro regime.
Ms. González retweeted Mr. Hogg’s response to Mr. King: “She’s a beautiful woman of Cuban descent and we love her. You would too if you ever got the chance to meet her.”
She also retweeted another of Mr. Hogg’s tweets, which called on Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican of Florida of Cuban descent, to respond to Mr. King.
The conservative writer and commentator Dan McLaughlin suggested that reporters ask Ms. González “what the flag means to her and why she wears it.” She did not respond to a call Tuesday.
Many attacks on the Parkland students do not even pretend to focus on issues or substance. They include the false conspiracy trope that the students are paid actors. Sometimes their appearances and intelligence are mocked, including their efforts to get accepted to colleges this spring.
On Sunday, the conservative podcaster and vocal Trump supporter Bill Mitchell referred to Mr. Hogg as a “Damien, Children of the Corn, Hitler-Youth type” on Twitter.
The vitriol has sometimes backfired. A Republican candidate for the Maine State House dropped out of the race after calling Ms. González a “skinhead lesbian” and Mr. Hogg a “moron” and a “baldfaced liar.”
In a Tuesday interview, Nicole Hockley, whose young son Dylan was killed in the 2012 school shooting in Newtown, Conn., advised the students to ignore the attacks as much as possible. She recalled that she had faced conspiracy theories and personal attacks after her 6-year-old son was killed along with 19 other first graders at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
She remembered how that felt: “All I’m trying to do is make it so this doesn’t happen to other people and you’re attacking me without a lot of basis.”
She said that it was also important to hear rational criticism when trying to find common ground on the issues.
When dealing with more reasonable opponents and critics she tries to de-escalate the conversations, she said, to learn more about what they think and educate them about her views.
“Sometimes there’s a new perspective that I haven’t considered,” she said, though she rarely finds such views persuasive. Still, she said, those conversations “can bear a lot of fruit.”
Seddique Mateen, the father of the Pulse nightclub shooter, was an F.B.I. informer for over a decade before facing an investigation into financial transfers abroad, a lawyer for the shooter’s widow said in a weekend court filing.
The lawyer, Fritz Scheller, said in a Sunday motion that the case against the wife, Noor Salman, 31, should be dismissed because prosecutors waited until Saturday, after they had rested their case, to reveal to him the relationship that Mr. Mateen had with the authorities.
“It is apparent from the government’s belated disclosure that Ms. Salman has been defending a case without a complete set of facts and evidence that the government was required to disclose,” Mr. Scheller wrote in the motion.
Ms. Salman faces charges of aiding and abetting her husband, Omar Mateen, in the shooting in Orlando, Fla., in which he killed 49 people and wounded 53 others. Her trial began this month. If convicted, she faces life in prison.
In the filing, Mr. Scheller said that a federal prosecutor notified him by email on Saturday that Mr. Mateen’s father was a confidential F.B.I. source at various times between January 2005 and June 2016, when the attack occurred.
The prosecutor also reportedly said that, after the shooting, the government began an investigation into financial transfers Mr. Mateen had made to Turkey and Afghanistan, an inquiry of which he had not been made aware. The authorities also received a tip in 2012 accusing him of trying to raise money for an attack against the Pakistan government, according to the email.
Mr. Scheller argued in the motion that by withholding that information for so long, the federal government had robbed him of the opportunity to investigate a line of defense, violating Ms. Salman’s constitutional rights to due process and a fair trial. If the court does not dismiss her case, he said, it should declare a mistrial.
Had Ms. Salman’s lawyers known, they could have investigated various lines of argument, Mr. Scheller said, including whether the senior Mr. Mateen, not Ms. Salman, sought to support the Islamic State or whether the F.B.I. targeted her to avoid responsibility for failures related to its use of him as an informer.
The email to Mr. Scheller was sent by a lawyer from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Florida. A spokesman offered no response to or comment on the motion, which was argued in court on Monday.
In the trial, Ms. Salman’s lawyers have depicted her as a devoted parent, a woman with limited intelligence and a victim of cheating and abuse, a portrait that may play on the jury’s sympathies and pose a challenge for federal prosecutors.
In November 2016, Ms. Salman told The New York Times that, while she was pregnant, her husband had punched her on the shoulder so hard that it caused bruising. He then threatened her with violence if she failed to conceal the abuse from his parents.
Prosecutors, meanwhile, have portrayed Ms. Salman as a cunning partner to Mr. Mateen and say she helped him plot the attack.
Seddique Mateen could not be reached for comment.
Laura Ingraham, a Fox News host, apologized under pressure on Thursday for taunting a survivor of the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., as at least eight companies confirmed they would pull advertising from her show.
The dispute began Wednesday when Ms. Ingraham shared an article about the student, David Hogg, 17, getting rejected from colleges and accused him of whining about it.
In response, Mr. Hogg, who has rapidly become a prominent advocate for gun-control policies, called on Ms. Ingraham’s advertisers to boycott her show. Eight of the companies, TripAdvisor, Wayfair, Hulu, Nutrish, Johnson & Johnson, Nestle, Atlantis Paradise Island and Stitch Fix, said they were removing their ads. A ninth, Expedia, said it had recently pulled its advertising but declined to say when.
As news of the boycotts began coming out on Thursday, Ms. Ingraham apologized. “On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland,” she said, extending an invitation for Mr. Hogg to appear on the show.
Mr. Hogg said he was unimpressed by the apology.
“She only apologized after we went after her advertisers,” he said. “It kind of speaks for itself.”
Mr. Hogg said he has grown accustomed to being criticized, often ruthlessly. But to hear a prominent television host mock his college rejections was “extremely frustrating,” he said.
“I’m not going to stoop to her level and go after her on a personal level,” he said. “I’m going to go after her advertisers.”
Ms. Ingraham’s remarks went too far for TripAdvisor, which said it planned to stop advertising on the show and that it did not “condone the inappropriate comments made by this broadcaster.”
“We also believe Americans can disagree while still being agreeable, and that the free exchange of ideas within a community, in a peaceful manner, is the cornerstone of our democracy,” the company said through a spokesman. “In our view, these statements focused on a high school student cross the line of decency.”
Nutrish, a pet food brand owned by Rachael Ray, said it was “in the process of removing our ads from Laura Ingraham’s program.”
“The comments she has made are not consistent with how we feel people should be treated,” the company said.
Wayfair, an e-commerce company, said in a statement that it supports “open dialogue and debate on issues,” but that it would stop advertising on Ms. Ingraham’s show.
“The decision of an adult to personally criticize a high school student who has lost his classmates in an unspeakable tragedy is not consistent with our values,” the company said.
Nestle said it had “no plans to buy ads on the show in the future,” while Stitch Fix, a clothing box subscription service, said it had pulled its advertisements. Johnson & Johnson said it had done so as well, while Hulu said on Twitter, “We are no longer advertising on Laura Ingraham’s show and are monitoring all of our ad placements carefully.”
Expedia said it had “recently pulled the advertising” from Ms. Ingraham’s show, but it did not elaborate on timing or whether the decision was related to her comments.
Consumers have increasingly used social media to demand that advertisers respond to a series of controversies, particularly those involving Fox News hosts. Last year, more than 50 brands pulled ads from “The O’Reilly Factor” after The New York Times reported on settlements that the show’s host, Bill O’Reilly, had made with women who accused him of sexual harassment or other inappropriate behavior, which contributed to his ouster.
Similar boycott calls around the host Sean Hannity did not gain as much traction. In November, several brands that initially said they would stop advertising on Mr. Hannity’s show after comments he made about Roy S. Moore, the former Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama, later walked back those statements. Keurig ignited a firestorm when it said that it planned to halt ads on the show, as Mr. Hannity’s fans posted videos of themselves destroying its machines. The company’s chief executive later apologized to employees for any negativity they had faced from the “appearance of ‘taking sides.’”
Mr. Hogg said he was glad that some companies had pulled their ads from Ms. Ingraham’s program, but called it “just the beginning.”
If all of her advertisers pulled out, he said, “we can show that if you continue to bully the students that survived a mass murder, there’s going to be consequences.”
“Deal with the issues, not the individuals,” he said.
In February, Ms. Ingraham drew rebukes from N.B.A. players after she said the basketball superstars LeBron James and Kevin Durant should withhold their political opinions. Mr. James had spoken about his experience as an African-American man and criticized President Trump.
“Must they run their mouths like that?” she asked, adding, “Keep the political commentary to yourself, or as someone once said, shut up and dribble.”
Mr. Hogg plans to study either journalism or political science, he said. He confirmed that he had been rejected from four schools: University of California, Los Angeles; University of California, San Diego; University of California, Santa Barbara; and University of California, Irvine.
He said he had been accepted by Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo; California State University, San Marcos; and Florida Atlantic University, but has not decided which school he’ll attend.
The Fox News host Laura Ingraham announced on Friday that she was taking a week off following the decision of several companies to pull advertising from her show after she ridiculed a student survivor of the Parkland, Fla., school shooting.
“I’ll be off next week for Easter break with my kids. But fear not, we’ve got a great lineup of guest hosts to fill in for me,” Ms. Ingraham said on her show, “The Ingraham Angle.”
In response to an email, Fox News said that Ms. Ingraham’s break was a “preplanned vacation with her kids.”
The dispute began on Wednesday, when Ms. Ingraham shared an article about how the student, David Hogg, 17, had been rejected from several colleges, and she accused him of whining about it.
In response, Mr. Hogg, who has called for stricter gun regulations after the Feb. 14 shooting, called on advertisers to boycott Ms. Ingraham’s show.
He posted the names of her top advertisers on Twitter and urged his nearly 700,000 followers to call those companies. Several companies, including Hulu, Nutrish, Nestlé and TripAdvisor, have yanked their advertisements from Ms. Ingraham’s show.
“We’d like to confirm that we are no longer advertising on Laura Ingraham’s show and are monitoring all of our ad placements carefully,” Hulu said  on Twitter.
“The decision of an adult to personally criticize a high school student who has lost his classmates in an unspeakable tragedy is not consistent with our values,” Wayfair, an online retailer of home goods, said in a statement. The company said it supported “open dialogue and debate.”
Consumers have increasingly used social media to demand that advertisers respond to controversies, particularly those involving Fox News hosts.
Last year, more than 50 brands pulled ads from “The O’Reilly Factor” after The New York Times reported on settlements that the show’s host, Bill O’Reilly, had made with women who accused him of sexual harassment or other inappropriate behavior, which contributed to his ouster.
On Thursday, Ms. Ingraham apologized to Mr. Hogg, saying he should be proud of his grade point average.
“On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland,” Ms. Ingraham wrote on Twitter.
But Mr. Hogg said Ms. Ingraham’s apology did not go far enough and seemed designed only to stop more advertisers from dropping her show.
“I will only accept your apology only if you denounce the way your network has treated my friends and I in this fight,” Mr. Hogg said on Twitter. “It’s time to love thy neighbor, not mudsling at children.”
MIAMI — Starting in the fall of 2017, David Hogg, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior, applied to a half-dozen universities that offered programs in journalism, political science or photography. His plan was to become a journalist or filmmaker.
Less than six months later, the Parkland, Fla., teenager had tragically become one of the best-known high school students in America. After 17 of his fellow students and teachers were killed in a Feb. 14 mass shooting, Mr. Hogg became a leader in the grass-roots, student-led gun control movement that spread around the country, pushing a campaign to hold lawmakers accountable for their votes on gun legislation.
The day after the shooting, Mr. Hogg got his first college application letter back: a rejection from California State University at Long Beach. At least two more denials followed, along with acceptances to three universities. Now Mr. Hogg, whose name and face are surely recognizable to college admissions officers everywhere, has no idea where or if he is going to college in the fall.
“Sure, it’s disappointing and annoying, but not surprising. There are a lot of amazing people who do not get into or go to college,” said Mr. Hogg, who carries a 4.2 GPA and scored 1270 on the SAT. “I wanted to make a difference through storytelling and political activism, but I am already doing that now.”
The Parkland students are a case study in civic engagement. They are among the leaders of the #NeverAgain movement, collectively delivering fiery speeches that demand change, promoting their message on social media and organizing the March for Our Lives rally held last weekend, which drew participants from across the globe.
Much of their leadership and community work, driven by the loss of classmates and friends, might not have been considered in the college admission process. Now, some of the most vocal Parkland seniors — whether accepted or denied to their top college choices — are rethinking their college plans, hoping in one way or another to capitalize on the momentum.
Samantha Fuentes, who was wounded by a bullet and shrapnel in the Parkland attack, is contemplating sitting out the first semester or even the full year to continue the campaign to promote more rigorous gun safety laws.
“If the movement is solidifying even more and hitting the nation from all directions and they need soldiers, I will put college off,” said Ms. Fuentes, 18, who is staying close to home with tentative plans to attend Broward Community College, then Florida Atlantic University.
As a shooting victim and survivor, she is willing to speak at universities or to politicians about gun legislation.
“The truth is, us kids, we just want to be the voice for the people we lost, or for people who don’t think they have a voice,” said Ms. Fuentes, who would like to eventually become an elementary schoolteacher. “I am prioritizing this over college right now, I am prioritizing people’s lives over my education.”
University admissions offices declined to discuss individual applications, but many noted that civic engagement is a plus in considering whether to admit an applicant. In fact, some colleges publicly assured high school applicants in advance of last weekend’s March for Our Lives rallies that their participation in peaceful protests would not harm admission chances.
Harvard, for example, issued a statement: “The mission of Harvard College is to provide a deeply transformative liberal arts and sciences education that will prepare our students for a life of citizenship and leadership. Fundamental to our mission is our belief that students have the right to protest peacefully about issues of concern to them. Students who are disciplined for engaging responsibly in exercising their rights and freedoms would not have their chances of admission compromised or their admissions revoked.”
While on spring break this week, Mr. Hogg said he was leaning toward taking a gap year to focus on the midterm elections, hoping to rally young voters and target politicians supported by the National Rifle Association.
“We are trying to get these laws changed to drive down the number of people who die by gun violence,” he said. “I can figure out everything else later.”
Mr. Hogg said he does not believe his outspokenness had anything to do with the college denials, but admits it has been frustrating. In a late-night, March 16 message on Twitter — liked by at least 64,000 and retweeted nearly 6,600 times — Mr. Hogg told his followers, “Just got rejected from another college but that’s ok we’re already changing the world. Goodnight everyone.”
He added that he was comforting himself by eating chocolate muffins. The response was mixed, with some mocking his rejection, some encouraging him to take a gap year and others touting him as precisely the type of student colleges should recruit.
After a Twitter follower suggested he apply to a California university, Mr. Hogg confirmed that one of the schools that denied his application was University of California, San Diego. The University of California, Los Angeles, also turned him down, he said later.
On Wednesday morning, Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio host, taunted Mr. Hogg by linking to a story on Twitter about his college application denials. “David Hogg Rejected by Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it,” she said. Mr. Hogg pushed back, calling for sponsors to boycott Ms. Ingraham’s show. He later posted a list of advertisers to his nearly 600,000 followers, and Ms. Ingraham on Thursday apologized on Twitter.
“Any student should be proud of a 4.2 GPA,” including Mr. Hogg, she wrote. “On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland.”
Ryan Deitsch, a Parkland classmate who wants to follow his father and grandfather into filmmaking and photography, said his applications were rejected from several schools, including U.C.L.A. and Northwestern University. He was admitted to Florida State University, Savannah College of Art and Design and Columbia College Chicago.
“I don’t know what the next couple of months will look like. Right now, we are ramped up and the world is watching so now is the time for us to act,” Mr. Deitsch, 18, said just hours after a phone interview with Columbia College Hollywood, which is not affiliated with the Chicago school. “To do that, some of us might have to change our original plans. Right now, I am thinking of taking at least a semester off to devote to the movement.”
Though the shooting and organized response thrust Parkland students into the spotlight, Mr. Deitsch, a student journalist who filmed students in the aftermath of the shooting, does not believe it entitles him to special college privileges.
“It’s disappointing to not get into certain schools, but I try to keep things in perspective,” he said. “I am not angry. If I didn’t qualify then I shouldn’t just be admitted because I spoke the loudest. There is much more important work for us to do.”
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher
As hundreds of thousands of demonstrators prepared to march in Washington in response to the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., students on the South Side of Chicago felt sympathy, but also frustration.
Why hadn’t the gun violence in their community earned the nation’s outrage?
On today’s episode:
• Sameen Amin, a senior video producer at The New York Times.
Background coverage: 
• Video: Ke’Shon Newman’s brother was shot and killed on the South Side of Chicago, where gun violence is a daily threat. He decided to join the march in Washington with high school students from Parkland, Fla.
• For some students who joined protests against gun violence over the weekend, bloodshed doesn’t come in isolated bursts of mass slaughter, it’s a constant urban reality.
• Highlights from the March for Our Lives: Students protesting guns say “enough is enough.”
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.
From your mobile device:
You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.
Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)
From a desktop or laptop:
Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.
On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:
Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
On Google Home:
You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
Today’s teenagers have been raised on cellphones and social media. Should we worry about them or just get out of their way?
A recent wave of student protests around the country has provided a close-up view of Generation Z in action, and many adults have been surprised. While there has been much hand-wringing about this cohort, also called iGen or the Post-Millennials, the stereotype of a disengaged, entitled and social-media-addicted generation doesn’t match the poised, media-savvy and inclusive young people leading the protests and gracing magazine covers.
There’s 18-year-old Emma González, whose shaved head, impassioned speeches and torn jeans have made her the iconic face of the #NeverAgain movement, which developed after the 17 shooting deaths in February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Naomi Wadler, just 11, became an overnight sensation after confidently telling a national television audience she represented “African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper.” David Hogg, a high school senior at Stoneman Douglas, has weathered numerous personal attacks with the disciplined calm of a seasoned politician.
Sure, these kids could be outliers. But plenty of adolescent researchers believe they are not.
“I think we must contemplate that technology is having the exact opposite effect than we perceived,” said Julie Lythcott-Haims, the former dean of freshmen at Stanford University and author of “How to Raise an Adult.” “We see the negatives of not going outside, can’t look people in the eye, don’t have to go through the effort of making a phone call. There are ways we see the deficiencies that social media has offered, but there are obviously tremendous upsides and positives as well.”
“I am fascinated by the phenomenon we are seeing in front of us, and I don’t think it’s unique to these six or seven kids who have been the face of the Parkland adolescent cohort,” says Lisa Damour, an adolescent psychologist and author of “Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions Into Adulthood.”
“They are so direct in their messaging. They are so clear. They seem unflappable.”
Dr. Damour, who has spent her career talking and listening to teenagers, said she believes the Parkland teens are showing the world the potential of their peer group. “Those of us who live with teenagers and are around them can see something that is different about this generation,” she said.
There is still much to learn about the postmillennial cohort — social scientists haven’t even agreed on when this generation begins, although there seems to be a consensus forming that the year 2000, give or take a few years, is a good place to start. But data collected from various health surveys already show that today’s teens are different from previous generations in many ways.
Many risky behaviors have dropped sharply among today’s teens. Cigarette smoking among teens is at a historic low since peaking in the mid 1990s. Alcohol use has also declined significantly — the number of teens who have used alcohol in the past 30 days is down by half since the 1990s. Teen pregnancy rates have hit historic lows, and teens over all are waiting longer to have sex than their parent’s generation. Teen driving fatalities are down about 64 percent since 1975. Some of that is attributed to safer cars, but teen crashes have declined between 10 and 30 percent in states with tiered licensing systems, and teen drunken driving has dropped while teen seatbelt use has increased.
While most health researchers celebrate these changes in teen health, some scientists think the trends suggest a lower level of maturity among today’s teens. Perhaps teens are safer simply because their reliance on social media and smartphone use means they are getting out less. In September, the journal Child Development published a study by Jean Twenge, a psychology professor at San Diego State University, noting that there is a decline in a number of “adult” activities among today’s teens. In seven large, nationally representative surveys of eight million American adolescents from 1976 to 2016, fewer adolescents in recent years are having sex, dating, drinking alcohol, driving, working for pay and going out without their parents.
“The big picture is that they are taking longer to grow up,” said Dr. Twenge, whose latest book is “iGen: Why Today’s Super-Connected Kids Are Growing Up Less Rebellious, More Tolerant, Less Happy — and Completely Unprepared for Adulthood.”
In an article in The Atlantic last fall titled “Have Smartphones Destroyed a Generation?,” Dr. Twenge argued that teens are more comfortable in their bedrooms or on smartphones or social media than at a party. While they are physically safer than past generations as a result, rates of teen depression and suicide are on the rise. “It’s not an exaggeration to describe iGen as being on the brink of the worst mental-health crisis in decades,” she wrote. “Much of this deterioration can be traced to their phones.”
But a number of social scientists and adolescent health researchers disagree with that conclusion. While teen depression and suicide rates are worrisome, there is no causal link to show those trends are the result of smartphones and social media. In fact, a  literature review by Unicef researchers in December found that moderate use of digital technology tends to be beneficial for children’s mental well-being, while no use or too much use is associated with a “small negative impact.” The larger issues that affect a child’s well-being are family functioning, social dynamics at school and socio-economic conditions, the report concluded.
Don Tapscott, author of “Grown Up Digital,” said he believes today’s teenagers are better communicators than any previous generation. “They didn’t grow up being the passive recipients of somebody else’s broadcast,” he said. “They grew up being interactors and communicators. In the 1960s we had a generation gap. What we have today is a generation lap — they are lapping their parents on the digital track.”
The clinical psychologist Wendy Mogel interviewed groups of middle school and high school students around the country in 2015 and 2016 for her new book, “Voice Lessons for Parents: What to Say, How to Say It and When to Listen.” Dr. Mogel spoke with diverse kids from various regions and walks of life, but found herself consistently impressed by their thoughtfulness, how much they liked their parents, and how much they cared about the world around them.
“The press and general public like to see them as spoiled and not having to work hard for anything except grades and being very entitled,” Dr. Mogel said. “But they’re courageous, energetic, optimistic and really smart.”
Neil Howe, a historian whose books include “Millennials Rising,” said that unlike earlier generations, today’s teens have accepted the structures of society and have learned to work within those boundaries. “They’re very good at using rules to make their point, and they’re absolutely excellent at negotiating with their parents, and negotiating in a reasonable way about how to bend these rules in a way that will make them more effective and give them more space,” he said. “This is not a ‘throw the brick through the window and burn stuff down’ group of kids at all. They’re working very constructively, arm-in-arm with older people they trust, to make big institutions work better and make them stronger and more effective.”
Ms. Lythcott-Haims notes that the current crop of teenagers is the first generation to grow up with active shooter drills since kindergarten. “I think what we might have here is a generation that really defines itself by the markers of their childhoods,” she said. “In addition to being marked by these gun violence tragedies, they came to consciousness with a black man in the White House and smartphones in their hands.”
What does all this mean for the future of today’s teens? All of the researchers agreed there is still much more to learn about this cohort, but what we know so far is promising.
“We are in the process of distilling the data and discerning who they are, but I am excited,” said Ms. Lythcott-Haims. “We don’t know who they will be in their 20s, but already they have agency, the sense of your own existence, your own right to make decisions and your own responsibility for outcomes and consequences. That’s what we need to have to be mentally well. I think these folks could turn out not to be just leaders, but to be a generation that we look back on and end up calling one of the greatest.”
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Julie Turkewitz, a correspondent who is based in Denver, discussed the tech she’s using.
How often are you on the road on assignment?
I’m on the road about a third of the year. I cover a section of the West, which means I spend a lot of time in small towns and on winding mountain roads. I also work breaking news stories all over the country.
So that must mean you live out of a suitcase. What are your most essential tech tools for doing your work?
My travel bag is a constant work in progress. I try to be prepared for anything, because I never know when a trip is going to involve a surprise sit-down with a governor or an unexpected flight to cover a hurricane.
For all the talk about the changing media landscape, the most important tools of my job are a pen, a notebook and a way to file the story to my editors. There are still many places in America without cellphone or internet service, so simply communicating with my editors can be a challenge. I’m often filing on a laptop from the back seat of a car on the side of a road over a weak signal through my phone or a mobile hot spot.
I carry two phones (in case one falls in the mud), a power strip that allows me to charge my computer from the car, and a Canon 5D camera that I bought off a White House photographer years ago. I use my iPhone’s recording app, or a downloadable app called TapeACall, and I will occasionally pay for a transcription service for lengthy interviews. I’ve used both Trint.com and Rev.com.
When I’m working on breaking news stories, Twitter is crucial. Law enforcement agencies send out updates through social media, and the first thing I do when I head into a big story is make sure that I'm receiving their new tweets as immediate text messages. Then I use social media to report the texture of the story as it unfolds.
Beyond breaking news, I’ve found Twitter to be a great tool for conveying a sense of place. Sometimes a single picture or video can really cut to the heart of a story.
Lastly, roving reporters have to take care of themselves. I travel with an extra thin yoga mat from Manduka that packs down to the size of a book.
What could be better?
We need longer-lasting batteries. Battery life is a constant source of stress for reporters in the field.
You’ve reported extensively on the Parkland, Fla., school shooting and many other such shootings. After Parkland, the survivors used Twitter and other outlets to speak out about gun control. Do you foresee this use of social media having any effect on gun control regulations?
We’re already seeing that happen. Several of the Parkland students now have tens of thousands of followers on Twitter, and they have been using that tool to speak directly to people in power. And when Gov. Rick Scott of Florida passed a major gun bill recently, he credited the students for making it possible.
I’m curious to see what’s next. Will social media messaging continue to be as powerful as the weeks go on? And how will students deal with their new roles as survivors, advocates and public figures?
Has tech affected how you research and investigate the people you write about?
Social media has expanded the reporter-subject relationship, making it more personal, and allowing for interaction beyond the life of a particular story.
This means that I sometimes contact people on Facebook to ask for an interview, and stay connected to them for weeks or months. As a reporter covering a vast region — and as someone who focuses on capturing national narratives and sentiments — I find social media to be a helpful way to avoid a news bubble. It keeps me connected to Montana and Utah and Wyoming even when I can’t be there.
Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?
Audible audiobooks and Spotify playlists have gotten me through many a road trip.
But my current obsession is taking time off from technology. As someone who spends a lot of time linked to the internet, I try to spend off-days away from devices. I buy books. I keep a physical calendar, not a digital one. I get two papers on Sundays and have several magazine subscriptions.
And I try to spend as much non-travel time in face-to-face conversations with friends and family.
Welcome to the weekend! It’s a holiday, so maybe you’ve got friends and family crowding the house. If you need a mental getaway, here’s some great journalism to feast on. The articles in this list are not political, for the most part, so feel free to discuss with frenemies and in-laws.
After 21 years, “Roseanne” returned to ABC, and Roseanne Barr’s portrait of working-class Americans is as topical as ever. Arts
____
Where, but in the Eternal City, is it possible to map a 2,000-year-old eyewitness account of history onto an intact urban fabric? Travel
____
The actor spares no one in “Bob Honey Who Just Do Stuff,” about a hired killer (maybe) and politics (for sure). Books
____
Floating villages spread across the surface of the Mekong River’s waterways, playing host to ethnic Vietnamese whose status in Cambodian society is perpetually adrift. Magazine
____
A top Morgan Stanley broker was repeatedly accused of violence against ex-wives and girlfriends. Bank managers were told. But he kept his job. Business
____
A classmate of and tutor to the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School gunman called the idea that if other students had been kinder, Mr. Cruz would not have gone on a rampage, dangerous and a slap in the face to his victims. Opinion
____
When a call for peaceful protests came in the spring of 1919, a schoolgirl became the face of a nation’s collective yearning for freedom. Read other Overlooked pieces here. Obituaries
____
So far in 2018, our reporter David Gelles has hardly touched paper money or metal coins. There are no grimy bills folded alongside his driver’s license, no quarters or pennies jangling in his pocket. Business
____
Touring for her fourth studio album, getting a star on the Walk of Fame and channeling her own #MeToo memories into a message of empowerment. Styles
____
The Times joined a family on their return to Puerto Rico months after fleeing Hurricane Maria’s fury. The homecoming was not what they expected. New York
____
Loyola-Chicago (and Sister Jean) and Villanova are in the Final Four in San Antonio, so here is a look at the deep connection between Catholic colleges and basketball. Sports
ATLANTA — Friday’s acquittal of Noor Salman, the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando, Fla., nightclub in 2016, on charges that she helped carry out and cover up the attack, likely means that no one will ever be convicted in connection with the siege.
But the scrutiny of Ms. Salman by law enforcement was not unusual.
(Read about Noor Salman’s acquittal.)
In major cases, even when the suspects are killed and never brought to trial, law enforcement officials carry out exhaustive inquiries that can lead to charges against family members and acquaintances. The charges are often, but not always, connected to the crimes that provoked the primary investigation.
“It’s easy to identify people you can charge,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when nine people were killed at a church in Charleston. “The hard part is exercising the discretion and charging the right people.”
He added, “You’ve got to look at each case on its merits.”
Here is a look at some recent cases that stemmed from investigations of high-profile attacks.
After the April 2013 bombing of the Boston Marathon, which killed three people and injured many others, prosecutors brought a rare capital case in Massachusetts, seeking and securing the death penalty against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving attacker.
At least five others were also charged in the sweeping investigation.
Three of Mr. Tsarnaev’s college classmates came to the attention of federal officials and eventually spent time in prison: Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, who hindered the government’s investigation by removing evidence from Mr. Tsarnaev’s dormitory room, and Robel Phillipos, who was convicted of lying to the F.B.I.
Another man, Stephen Silva, pleaded guilty to drug and weapons charges; although he had no direct connection to the bombing, he had previously lent Mr. Tsarnaev a handgun, its serial number filed off, that was used by the Tsarnaevs to kill a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer.
Khairullozhon Matanov, a friend of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s older brother and accomplice in the marathon attack, admitted to deceiving investigators about his ties to the brothers and was ordered to prison.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s widow, Katherine Russell, was also the subject of investigation and widespread speculation in the news media, but the authorities never brought a case against her.
Dylann S. Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in June 2015, was captured the day after his rampage. About three months later, federal agents arrested one of Mr. Roof’s friends and accused him of lying to investigators and withholding information about the planned attack.
The friend, Joseph C. Meek Jr., ultimately pleaded guilty and described how Mr. Roof had told him of his preparations for the attack, including trips to Charleston to scout out the church and his plans to carry ammunition in a fanny pack.
Mr. Meek, who was never called to testify at Mr. Roof’s trial, was sentenced to 27 months in prison. He is expected to be released in September, according to the federal Bureau of Prisons.
Mr. Roof, convicted by a federal jury in December 2016, was sentenced to death.
Despite some fears that Stephen Paddock, who opened fire in October on the Las Vegas Strip, had help from a second gunman, law enforcement officials now believe that he acted alone when he killed 58 people and wounded hundreds of others.
The investigation, though, led to the arrest of an ammunition dealer, who was accused of manufacturing armor-piercing bullets without having a proper license. The dealer, Douglas Haig, acknowledged meeting Mr. Paddock and selling him ammunition, but has said he “had no contribution to what Paddock did.”
“I had no way to see into his mind,” he said. “The product that I sold him had absolutely nothing to do with what he did. I’m a vendor. I’m a merchant whose name was released.”
Mr. Paddock’s girlfriend, Marilou Danley, who was questioned extensively after the attack, will not be charged, the authorities said in January.
A married couple’s terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., in December 2015 led to a series of prosecutions, including one against a man who bought two assault rifles that were used in the rampage.
Enrique Marquez Jr. pleaded guilty in February 2017 to providing material support and resources to terrorists for his role in plotting attacks with Syed Rizwan Farook. The men never carried out their planned assaults, which targeted Riverside City College and freeway commuters, but Mr. Farook used Mr. Marquez as a “straw purchaser” to buy weapons that were later used in San Bernardino. Mr. Marquez, who faces up to 25 years in prison, has not yet been sentenced.
The federal government also secured guilty pleas — for conspiracy to commit immigration fraud — from Mr. Farook’s brother and sister-in-law. Mr. Marquez’s wife pleaded guilty to conspiracy, perjury and false statements charges that were brought when investigators discovered what they described as a sham marriage to Mr. Marquez.
Mr. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, were killed in a gun battle with the police after a pursuit.
Many investigations do not lead to charges. After a man killed 10 people at a community college in rural Oregon in 2015, for example, the authorities found that he acted alone and did not prosecute anyone. And officials in Texas have not brought any charges linked to November’s attack on a church in Sutherland Springs, in which 26 people were killed.
SAN ANTONIO —  A 23-year-old man has been sentenced to life in prison in the fatal shooting of a Good Samaritan who tried to stop him from beating a woman in a crowded San Antonio parking lot in 2016.
Teles Mandan Juarez pleaded guilty to murder in the killing of 39-year-old Isidro Zarate. A judge sentenced Juarez Thursday.
Zarate tried to stop Juarez from beating his female companion whom he'd dragged by the hair through the Walmart parking lot.
Police say at least two dozen people witnessed the shooting the day after Thanksgiving.
The judge also sentenced Juarez to 20 years after he pleaded guilty to aggravated assault with a deadly weapon in the shooting of a woman who tried to call 911 during the incident. She survived.
PARKLAND, Fla. —  Multiple online sites have wrongly claimed Florida school shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg was not on campus during the mass shooting.
The erroneous information was based on a video to promote a CBS documentary on the student activists of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. The 8-minute video showed Hogg saying that on Feb. 14, he rode his bike 3 miles from his home to school, taking a camera with him. Stories shared on social media said that meant Hogg changed his story from an earlier account of being at school during the shooting, although some sites followed up with posts noting their misinterpretation.
Hogg huddled with other students during the shooting, using his cellphone to record those around him. Ashley Kurth, a culinary arts teacher, said she taught Hogg when he was a freshman. When the shooting erupted, Kurth sheltered students who had been outside her classroom.
"I physically grabbed David by the arm and pulled him into my room," she said. "It is extremely frustrating the kind of information that is being put out there."
In an interview with Vox published Feb. 20, Hogg specified the time of his bike ride: 6 p.m., after the shooting.
___
This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.
ELIZABETHTOWN, Ky. —  A man who allegedly killed his wife at home was fatally shot by police behind a Kentucky high school while it was in session Wednesday, authorities say.
Jesse Kilgus, 51, was shot in his van outside John Hardin High School in Elizabethtown, where he went to check his child out of school, Kentucky State Police said.
Trooper Jeff Gregory told news outlets the shooting happened around 1 p.m. Wednesday that no students or school employees were harmed.
Gregory said police had initially found the body of Ruth Marie Kilgus, 46, and learned that Jesse Kilgus planned to pick up his child from school before they confronted him outside the school.
Gregory did not have any further details late Wednesday about the circumstances that led to the shooting but he said seven officers from three departments fired shots.
"Obviously nobody ever wants this situation to happen, and it's unfortunate that it happened in a school parking lot, but because there's great cooperation between all three police departments that were involved," Gregory added. "We did everything right as far as I'm concerned."
Hardin County Schools Superintendent Teresa Morgan said the student involved will receive trauma counseling after losing both parents Wednesday.
"He is safe at this time and he is a now with extended family," Morgan said.
Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin praised police via Twitter on Wednesday evening.
"Suspect was attempting to enter a high school in Hardin County, KY," the tweet said. "Area schools were temporarily locked down as a safety precaution, but the prompt response by law enforcement officers ensured that no harm came to any students or teachers."
The fatal shooting near the high school comes as American communities are seeking ways to impose tougher security measures in the wake of the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 people dead. In Kentucky, a shooting in January at Marshall County High School killed two students and injured more than a dozen others.
GAINESVILLE, Fla. —  A Florida police chief says officers under his command are expected to engage any school shooter without waiting for backup or setting up a perimeter.
The Gainesville Sun reports that Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones on Tuesday said at a community meeting that his officers are expected to "impact the threat" before doing anything else.
The chief's comments came after a school resource officer at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland was criticized for waiting outside a school building during a shooting that killed 17 people. The officer in Parkland resigned afterward.
Jones says his department has been trained to know that in the event of a similar school shooting they are to immediately go after the threat.
___
Information from: The Gainesville (Fla.) Sun, http://www.gainesvillesun.com
LOS ANGELES —  A rock musician who survived a terrorist attack in Paris says the Florida school shooting survivors who called for gun control during the March for Our Lives in Washington are "pathetic."
In a series of Instagram posts over the weekend that were later deleted, Eagles of Death Metal frontman Jesse Hughes said the students were "exploiting" the deaths.
Hughes wrote: "As the survivor of a mass shooting I can tell you from first-hand experience that all of you protesting and taking days off from school insult the memory of those who were killed and abuse and insult me and every other lover of liberty by your every action."
The band escaped a 2015 attack in a theater that left 89 dead.
A message seeking comment from the band's agent was not returned.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  The Latest on fatal shooting of a black man by police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana (all times local):
7 p.m.
An attorney for a fired Louisiana police officer who fatally shot a black man during a struggle outside a convenience store says he plans to appeal his client's termination to a civil service board.
Attorney John McLindon represents Blane Salamoni, who was fired Friday from the Baton Rouge Police Department. McLindon said he hopes to have the board hear the request in about 30 days. He said his client understands it's unlikely he can ever be a Baton Rouge police officer again, but he wants to prove he acted properly and followed procedures during the encounter with Alton Sterling.
Police Chief Murphy Paul announced officer Salamoni's firing Friday, less than a week after Louisiana's attorney general ruled out criminal charges in Sterling's July 2016 shooting death.
___
5:20 p.m.
A Louisiana police chief has fired the white officer who fatally shot a black man during a struggle outside a convenience store nearly two years ago, a killing that set off widespread protests.
Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul announced officer Blane Salamoni's firing Friday, less than a week after Louisiana's attorney general ruled out criminal charges in Alton Sterling's July 2016 shooting death.
Paul also suspended officer Howie Lake II, the other officer involved in the deadly confrontation, for three days. Lake helped wrestle Sterling to the ground but didn't fire his weapon that night.
Both officers had remained on paid administrative leave since the shooting.
Attorney General Jeff Landry announced Tuesday that his office isn't charging either officer. The U.S. Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges last year.
___
5:10 p.m.
A source says one of the officers involved in the fatal shooting of a black man in Baton Rouge has been fired and the other will be suspended.
The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity because an official announcement hadn't been made, said officer Blane Salamoni, who shot Alton Sterling in a July 2016 struggle will be fired.
The other officer, officer Howie Lake II, will be suspended for three days.
The shooting set off widespread protests.
___
11:30 a.m.
A Louisiana police chief plans to announce whether he is disciplining two white officers for the fatal shooting of a black man whose death set off widespread protests.
At a press conference scheduled for Friday evening, Baton Rouge police Chief Murphy Paul also is expected to release body camera footage and other videos of the officers' deadly encounter with Alton Sterling outside a convenience store in July 2016.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot Sterling six times during a struggle. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground but didn't fire his weapon.
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry announced Tuesday that his office isn't charging either officer. The Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges last year.
Both officers have remained on paid administrative leave since the shooting.
ORLANDO, Fla. —  Lawyers for the woman accused of helping her husband plan his June 2016 mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida have rested their case in her federal trial.
Noor Salman's defense rested after calling one expert Tuesday. Closing arguments are expected Wednesday.
Prosecutors told the jury that Salman knew Omar Mateen was buying rounds of ammunition, helped him spend thousands of dollars before the attack on the Pulse nightclub and knew about his plan when he left home before the shooting where he killed 49 people in 2016. They also say she lied in an attempt to mislead FBI agents and had knowledge of her husband's sick fascination with violent jihadist videos and terrorism.
Defense attorneys describe the 31-year-old mother as a simple woman with a low IQ who was abused by her husband.
JERSEY CITY, N.J. —  Authorities are investigating the death of an off-duty Jersey City police officer who died from a gunshot wound to his upper body.
Hudson County prosecutors say 32-year-old Ramon Torres was found around 8 p.m. Sunday in his Jersey City home by officers responding to a reported shooting at the residence. He apparently had been shot in the torso and was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later.
Prosecutors said Monday that the cause and manner of death remains under investigation. They declined further comment.
Dozens of police officers gathered outside the hospital's emergency entrance following the shooting.
Torres had graduated from the police academy about a year ago.
___
This story has been updated to show that Torres was 32 years old, not 33.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. —  The Latest on a fired Florida police officer trying to get manslaughter and attempted murder charges against him thrown out (all times local):
5:45 p.m.
A judge has postponed a hearing to decide whether a fired police officer charged with fatally shooting a stranded black motorist should go to trial.
Circuit Judge Samantha Schosberg Feuer late Tuesday postponed former Palm Beach Gardens Officer Nouman Raja's "stand your ground" hearing until May. It had been scheduled to begin Wednesday.
Raja is charged with manslaughter and attempted murder for the October 2015 shooting of 31-year-old Corey Jones.
Raja says Jones pulled a gun on him while he worked undercover in plainclothes. Prosecutors say Raja's negligence made Jones think he was a robber. Jones had a concealed weapons permit and was legally armed.
If the judge lets the case proceed, the 40-year-old Raja is scheduled to go on trial in July. He could get a life sentence.
___
4:10 p.m.
A Florida judge will decide whether a fired police officer charged with manslaughter should go on trial for shooting a stranded black motorist.
Prosecutors and Nouman Raja's attorneys are scheduled to square off Wednesday and Thursday before Circuit Judge Samantha Schosberg Feuer. She will decide whether the former Palm Beach Gardens officer should face trial for the 2015 shooting of 31-year-old Corey Jones.
Raja says Jones pulled a gun on him while he worked undercover in plainclothes. Prosecutors say Raja's negligence made Jones think he was a robber. Jones had a concealed weapons permit and was legally armed.
If the judge lets the case proceed, the 40-year-old Raja is scheduled to go on trial in July. He could get a life sentence.
(Reuters) - A self-inflicted gunshot wound, not a bullet fired by a sheriff's deputy, killed a 17-year-old who had just shot another student at a Maryland high school last week, authorities have said.
Austin Rollins, a student at Great Mills High School, shot Jaelynn Willey, 16, with his father's handgun in a hallway at the school last Tuesday, according to the St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office.
Willey, who had been in a relationship with Rollins that had recently ended, died days later.
About three minutes after Rollins shot Willey, sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill fired one round at him, striking his gun. At the same time, Rollins shot himself in the head, the sheriff said in a brief statement on Monday.
Rollins was wounded and died at a hospital. Gaskill was unharmed.
Desmond Barnes, a 14-year-old student, was struck in the leg by the same bullet that hit Willey, the sheriff said. Barnes was treated at a hospital and released a day after the shooting.
Details of the shooting emerged after hundreds of thousands of people marched over the weekend to demand the U.S. government tighten gun laws.
Led by survivors of a Florida high school shooting in February that claimed 17 lives, the marchers called on lawmakers and President Donald Trump to confront the issue after decades of shooting sprees at U.S. schools and colleges .
(Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee, editing by Larry King)
UPPER DARBY, Pa. —  The Latest on a Taiwanese exchange student accused of threating to shoot up his Pennsylvania high school (all times local):
4:55 p.m.
Police say a Taiwanese exchange student accused of threatening a shooting at his Pennsylvania high school had ammunition in the home where he was staying and researched how to buy weapons.
Upper Darby police say 18-year-old student An Tso Sun threatened to "shoot up" the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School on May 1.
Sun later said he was joking but was charged with making terroristic threats.
Police say a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches, a high-powered crossbow and live ammunition were found in Sun's bedroom in Lansdowne.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said Wednesday his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest. He says his client said he was "Just kidding."
___
12:35 p.m.
Police allege that an exchange student accused of threatening a shooting at his high school had ammunition in the Pennsylvania home where he was staying and also researched how to buy an AK-47.
Upper Darby police alleged Wednesday that 18-year-old Taiwanese exchange student An Tso Sun threatened to "shoot up" the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School on May 1. Sun later said he was joking but was charged with making terroristic threats.
Superintendent Michael Chitwood says a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches, a high-powered crossbow and live ammunition were found in Sun's bedroom in Lansdowne.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting, and many items found were things he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest.
___
This item has been corrected to show Latoison is a defense attorney, not a public defender.
A Maryland high school student who fatally shot his ex-girlfriend and injured another student outside a classroom last week killed himself when a school resource officer stationed on campus confronted him, the authorities said on Monday evening.
The shooting at Great Mills High School in Southern Maryland last Tuesday was over in about a minute. Just before the first class period started, Austin Wyatt Rollins pulled out his father’s handgun in a hallway and fired one shot. It struck his former girlfriend, Jaelynn Willey, in the head and the other student, Desmond Barnes, in the leg. Moments later, Mr. Rollins, 17, was dead in another part of the school.
But before Monday, it was not clear whether the gunman had killed himself or whether the resource officer, Deputy Blaine Gaskill, fatally shot him. The St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office said its investigation had found that Mr. Rollins fired one shot at Jaelynn, 16, and then one more into his head at the same time Deputy Gaskill fired his weapon.
Deputy Gaskill’s shot missed Mr. Rollins but struck his handgun, the sheriff’s office said. In its initial report after the shooting, the sheriff’s office said Deputy Gaskill and Mr. Rollins had exchanged gunfire.
Amid the national debate over gun control and school shootings, Deputy Gaskill was heralded for his swift response and hailed as an example of how officers on campus can quickly end shootings. In the wake of the deadly school shooting in Parkland, Fla., politicians including President Trump have called for arming teachers and placing additional officers on campuses. Some have criticized those ideas.
After the Maryland shooting, Jaelynn was taken to University of Maryland Prince George’s Hospital Center. Her parents said she was taken off life support on Thursday after she had been declared brain dead.
RILEY TOWNSHIP, Mich. —  Police say a 73-year-old woman was killed by a stray bullet that apparently came into her home from a neighbor's target practice in rural Michigan.
Michigan State Police say Shirley Pfeil's husband reported that she collapsed Sunday shortly after he heard a "loud crack." He says she was shot while in a kitchen area of their home in Riley Township, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) northeast of Detroit.
Police say a 21-year-old man had been shooting at a berm on his nearby property. Police say he's cooperating with investigators.
The St. Clair County prosecutor's office is expected to review the case once police complete their investigation. Lt. Dave Kaiser says target practice isn't illegal or uncommon in the area, but people must make sure they're shooting in a safe direction.
FLORENCE, S.C. —  The Latest on a shooting by a volunteer police officer in South Carolina (all times local):
6:15 p.m.
Body camera video from a South Carolina police officer shows a volunteer constable firing his gun at a car as the driver hits a police cruiser and then drives away from a traffic stop.
The Florence Police Department released the video Tuesday after Mayor Stephen Wukela called the Saturday night shooting troubling.
The video shows the driver refusing to get out after officers said they smelled marijuana. He then puts his car in reverse and constable Christopher Bachochin steps back and fires as the car hits a police cruiser and drives off.
The State Law Enforcement Division's training strongly discourages officers from shooting at moving cars because they are hard targets to hit and bullets can strike other people. Instead, authorities suggest getting out of the way.
The driver was wounded and was released from the hospital Monday.
___
4:25 p.m.
A county prosecutor says he's asking South Carolina's attorney general to decide whether to charge a volunteer police officer in the shooting of a motorist.
Florence County Solicitor Ed Clements told The Associated Press on Tuesday that his office has a conflict of interest. State prosecutors will now decide if constable Christopher Bachochin is charged in Saturday's shooting.
Clements said Bachochin was riding with a city of Florence police officer when they pulled over a man who did not initially stop.
The prosecutor says Bachochin fired as many as eight shots at the car when the man inside refused to get out and looked like he was grabbing something.
Clements says he watched the body and dashboard recordings, but refused to say if he thought the shooting was justified.
___
3:15 p.m.
A South Carolina mayor says video of an incident where a white volunteer officer shot a black driver during a traffic stop shows the encounter was "troubled."
But Florence Mayor Stephen Wukela would not describe the video to reporters Tuesday, saying it would speak for itself.
He said police were still processing the body and dashboard cameras recordings, and plan to make them public as soon as possible.
Authorities say constable Christopher Bachochin was riding with a regular police officer to maintain his certification to be a volunteer officer when they pulled over a driver.
Bachochin didn't return a message left at a listing for him.
The driver was released from the hospital Monday. A family spokesman says they plan to make a statement later this week.
___
11:10 a.m.
A prosecutor says a volunteer police officer in South Carolina shot at a driver up to eight times after the man refused to get out of his vehicle during a traffic stop and appeared to be looking for something.
Solicitor Ed Clements says the State Law Enforcement Division is reviewing body camera and dashboard recordings frame by frame of the shooting Saturday night by a constable in Florence.
Authorities say the driver, who is black, was wounded and released from the hospital Monday.
The constable, who is white, was riding along with a Florence police officer. The mayor and police chief immediately sought to clear the city of responsibility, saying the city officer did not fire.
Florence Mayor Stephen Wukela plans a 1 p.m. Tuesday news conference and officials say he is considering releasing police video of the shooting.
___
7:45 a.m.
The shooting of a black motorist during a traffic stop this weekend has raised questions about South Carolina's training and oversight of volunteer law enforcers known as constables.
Florence police say the constable was riding along with an officer Saturday night when they stopped a driver and the constable wounded the man, who is expected to survive. It's unclear why the constable fired, and the police chief says his officer isn't being investigated.
State Rep. Terry Alexander, a Democrat, says he's heard troubling details that prompted his own inquiry.
The Post and Courier reports constables are appointed by the governor and can carry weapons and make arrests, but they're not trained by the South Carolina Criminal Justice Academy and are not directly overseen by the State Law Enforcement Division.
___
Information from: The Post and Courier, http://www.postandcourier.com
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the fatal shooting of an unarmed man in Sacramento, California (all times local):
8:10 p.m.
The Sacramento Kings say there will be a heavy police presence to keep protesters from blocking fans from entering the team's arena for a third time.
Demonstrators upset by the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by police in California's capital earlier this month twice prevented thousands of fans from entering Golden 1 Center. Team members and owners supported the protest at another game, with members donning warm-up T-shirts honoring 22-year-old Stephon Clark.
His funeral is Thursday at a Sacramento church.
The team warned Wednesday night that they and Sacramento police are committed to avoiding another disruption for fans at Thursday night's game with the Indiana Pacers.
That will include a significant police presence around the arena, with security and ticket checks at the outskirts of the team's property.
___
4:35 p.m.
The brother of police shooting victim Stephon Clark says he doesn't want the media outside the wake.
Stevante Clark approached reporters set up outside the Bayside of South Sacramento church where the wake is being held, yelling and screaming for them to leave and saying they don't care about his family. He was picked up and carried into the church by a man.
Several minutes later Clark came back outside and was quickly carried away as he moved to approach reporters again.
A national spotlight has been on Clark's family since his March 18 shooting by two Sacramento police officers.
Stevante Clark's confrontation with reporters came a day after he disrupted a city council meeting, jumping on the platform and chanting his brother's name at Mayor Darrell Steinberg.
Members of the media were permitted to set up outside the public wake.
__
2:30 p.m.
Community members are gathering to mourn 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was killed by police, during a public wake at a south Sacramento church.
Clark was shot by police who were responding to a call about someone breaking car windows on March 18. He was unarmed.
Some attendees wore black shirts calling for justice. One woman held up a clenched fist as she exited the church while others hugged and cried.
Cynthia Brown brought her 10- and 15-year-old grandsons, who she said could have been in Clark's shoes. She says the two officers who shot Clark should be charged and that police need to stop assuming a black man is a "thug."
She says, "this feels like the '60s."
__
1 a.m.
Relatives of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police say they're skeptical of a promised investigation into the shooting.
Twenty-two-year-old Stephon Clark was shot by two Sacramento police officers responding to a report of someone breaking car windows March 18. Police say they thought he was holding a gun. It was a cellphone.
The shooting has sparked more than a week of protests. Clark's wake is planned for Wednesday.
Clark's uncle, Curtis Gordon, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the family is skeptical that the killing will be properly investigated.
The California attorney general's office on Tuesday joined the investigation. Police Chief Daniel Hahn says he hopes that will bring transparency to the probe.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  A settlement agreement has been reached in a family's lawsuit over the fatal shooting of a 6-year-old autistic boy during a traffic stop by law enforcement in Louisiana.
U.S. District Judge Dee Drell dismissed the suit late Thursday as the parties worked toward a final agreement. Drell's order says he can reopen the case if the settlement isn't "consummated" within 90 days.
Steven Lemoine, an attorney for relatives of the slain child, Jeremy Mardis, said in a text message that he can't disclose the terms.
Mardis was strapped into the front seat of his father's car when two deputy city marshals in Marksville opened fire on the vehicle after a November 2015 chase, killing the boy and critically wounding his father, Christopher Few.
One deputy, Derrick Stafford, was convicted of manslaughter last March and sentenced to 40 years in prison; the other, Norris Greenhouse Jr., pleaded guilty last September to negligent homicide and was sentenced to 7 ½ years in prison.
The Nov. 3, 2015, shooting was captured on video by a police officer's body camera. Defense attorneys claimed Stafford and Greenhouse acted in self-defense, but prosecutors said the video shows the deputies firing on Few's car from a safe distance while his hands were raised inside the vehicle.
The family's 96-page lawsuit, filed in October 2016, claims Marksville city officials had failed to properly train the deputies on the use of deadly force. The suit also says the officers involved did nothing to stop the boy's bleeding or alleviate his suffering, even after one of them found a pulse on the child.
"Sadly, Jeremy was left to suffer — and die — while the officers casually searched for gloves," the suit said.
The boy's father and two other relatives sued the town of Marksville and its city court, Avoyelles Parish, Marksville City Marshal Floyd Voinche Sr., and the officers involved in the shooting.
Drell's order doesn't specify whether all of the parties are involved in the settlement agreement.
Court filings show Stafford and Greenhouse were ordered to be brought to Alexandria this week for a two-day settlement conference before a federal magistrate judge.
Attorneys for Avoyelles Parish and Stafford declined to comment Friday.
Stafford was a Marksville police lieutenant. He and Greenhouse, a former Marksville police officer, were moonlighting as deputy marshals.
Marksville's deputy marshals were part-timers who normally serve court papers, but Voinche had them stopping cars, writing traffic tickets and going on patrols for months before the shooting because the City Council slashed the city court's budget at the recommendation of Mayor John Lemoine.
The city court, which presides over traffic citations, sued the city over the deep cuts in July 2015, saying Marksville had stopped paying the salaries of Voinche, Judge Angelo Piazza III and the court's clerks.
The family's lawsuit calls the shooting a "barbaric and excessive use of deadly force" that fit a pattern of behavior unpunished by town officials who supervised the two deputies.
The deputies' lawyers claimed Few drove recklessly while leading officers on a 2-mile (3-kilometer) chase and then rammed into Greenhouse's vehicle as he was getting out of it, before he and Stafford opened fire.
Stafford testified at his trial that he didn't know the boy was in the car and didn't see Few's hands in the air. But he said he shot at the car because he feared Few was going to back up and hit Greenhouse with his vehicle.
Few is white, as was his son. Stafford and Greenhouse are black. Their defense attorneys accused investigators of rushing to judgment, arresting the officers less than a week after the shooting. One of Stafford's attorneys questioned whether investigators would have acted more deliberately had the officers been white.
HOUSTON —  Video released by authorities shows a suburban Houston police officer fatally shooting a driver during a traffic stop after the man ignored requests to stay in his vehicle and drew a handgun, which police said Friday had been reported stolen.
The driver, identified as 44-year-old Marco Antonio Saavedra, had four warrants for his arrest, said Pasadena Police spokesman Vance Mitchell.
After Thursday's shooting, Pasadena police released video from the officer's bodycam and from his vehicle's dashboard camera.
In the video , the officer pulled over Saavedra's white car after the motorist ran a stop sign.
As soon as Saavedra stopped his car, he opened his door and could be heard saying, "What did I do" as he stepped out of his vehicle and stood up.
The officer told Saavedra three times to "stay in the vehicle" and then told him twice to "show me your hands." Saavedra had his right hand behind his back as he stood next to his car.
Saavedra then leaned back into his car before drawing a handgun. The officer fired several times, hitting Saavedra on the left side of his body.
The driver then stumbled around the street before raising his gun a second time. The officer fired several more times, hitting Saavedra, who then fell onto the pavement.
Pasadena Assistant Police Chief Joshua Bruegger told reporters Thursday the shooting appeared justified but the case would be presented to a grand jury.
Mitchell said Friday that Saavedra had arrest warrants on aggravated assault charges and for violating his bond. Court records show Saavedra, from Houston, had been accused of assaulting his wife on at least two occasions.
The Pasadena police officer, whose name was not released, was put on administrative leave for several days. The officer has been with the police department for 13 years, Mitchell said.
___
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. —  A white North Carolina police officer shot and killed a black passenger who refused orders not to reach for a gun after a late-night traffic stop led to a physical struggle, authorities said Saturday.
The shooting happened after Officer D.E. McGuire stopped a car containing two men and a woman about 10:30 p.m. Friday during a routine patrol northeast of downtown, according to a Winston-Salem Police Department news release.
Edward Van McCrae, 60, was in the rear seat and began making suspicious movements, police say. McGuire told McCrae to stop reaching for concealed areas of the vehicle, but McCrae continued, according to the news release.
"After being removed from the vehicle, Mr. McCrae physically struggled with Officer McGuire and refused multiple verbal commands by Officer McGuire to 'stop reaching,'" the news release said. "As the struggle continued, a handgun became visible to Officer McGuire."
McGuire shot and killed McCrae when he refused commands not to reach for the gun, according to the release. A police report characterizes the exchange as an assault on the officer with a firearm.
The State Bureau of Investigation has been brought in to investigate the shooting, which happened in a residential area of modest homes. A spokesman for the state agency, Brent Culbertson, confirmed in an email that McGuire is white and McCrae was black.
McGuire, who has worked for the department since 2015, has been put on administrative duty pending the investigation.
The news release said that McCrae used his body camera from the beginning of the traffic stop, and he called for backup when he saw McCrae's suspicious movements. State law typically requires a judge to sign off on any public release of police body-camera footage.
Other officers arrived within seconds of the shooting and attempted to resuscitate McCrae, as did an emergency medical crew, according to authorities. He was pronounced dead at the scene. The other occupants of the car weren't injured.
Police said that McGuire had minor abrasions after the altercation.
A woman who lives near the scene of the shooting, Delphine Bias, told WGHP-TV that she heard gunshots before walking to her window to see McCrae lying on the ground.
"I heard about four or five shots, 'Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow!'" she said. "So when I jumped up to run to see what was going on, I saw a gentleman laying over there on the street."
MIAMI —  More advertisers dropped Fox News personality Laura Ingraham on Friday, two days after she mocked a Florida school shooting survivor online.
At least 11 companies had said by Friday afternoon that they would pull their ads from "The Ingraham Angle."
On Wednesday, Ingraham tweeted, "David Hogg Rejected By Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it."
In response, Hogg, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who filmed students hiding from the gunman in their classrooms, was quick to respond, tweeting a list of a dozen advertisers and encouraging followers to immediately call them and ask them to drop Ingraham. Hogg has faced intense criticism from right-wing conservatives and gun advocates who have falsely called him a crisis actor after the Valentine's Day shooting in Parkland that killed 17.
"Soooo @IngrahamAngle what are your biggest advertisers ... Asking for a friend," he wrote with the hashtag #BoycottIngramAdverts.
Of the businesses listed by Hogg, online home goods store Wayfair, food company Nestle, travel website TripAdvisor, video-streaming service Hulu and Rachel Ray's dog food Nutrish said they are removing their support from Ingraham. Though not specifically mentioned in Hogg's initial tweet, Office Depot, Jenny Craig, Expedia, StitchFix, Johnson & Johnson and Atlantis, Paradise Island resort have also dropped Ingraham.
Ingraham apologized Thursday on Twitter, saying, "On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland."
Ingraham tweeted that she thought she was the first to feature Hogg on her show after the shooting and added, "he's welcome to come on my show anytime for a productive discussion."
Hogg tweeted later Thursday that an apology to save advertisers wasn't enough and that he'd only accept Ingraham's apology if she denounced the way Fox News has treated his friends.
"It's time to love thy neighbor, not mudsling at children," Hogg wrote.
DES MOINES, Iowa —  A comment on an Iowa congressman's campaign Facebook page about one of the survivors of a Florida school shooting has prompted hundreds of comments, many met by mocking replies from the campaign.
U.S. Rep. Steve King's campaign Facebook page on Sunday featured a picture of Emma Gonzalez as she gave a speech at Saturday's "March for Our Lives" rally in Washington. Alongside a photo of Gonzalez, who wore a Cuban flag patch, the page noted Gonzalez's Cuban heritage and stated her "ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens."
Hundreds responded with outrage and blasted King for criticizing a young student who had survived a school shooting. The campaign repeatedly defended the initial statement, and in response to one comment wrote it was "just pointing out the irony of someone wearing a communist flag while advocating for gun control."
A call to his campaign rang unanswered.
ALMENA TOWNSHIP, Mich. —  Authorities are looking for the person responsible for shooting a man in the neck with an arrow in southwestern Michigan.
Michigan State Police say 61-year-old Michael Downey was in a remote area in Van Buren County's Almena Township on Sunday in a hunting vest when the arrow went through his neck. He is recovering from surgery.
His wife, Janis Downey, tells WWMT-TV that her husband was on a scouting trip for hunting. She says nobody should have been in the area with a bow-and-arrow because it's not hunting season.
She says her husband is "lucky to be alive." She says the arrow went into his throat but missed major arteries.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police (all times local):
7:20 p.m.
Protesters again blocked fans from entering the NBA arena as the Sacramento King's game began.
They gathered to protest the March 18 killing of Stephon Clark by Sacramento police. It's the second protest blocking off the Sacramento King's arena since then.
Protesters stood in front of the doors on several sides of the arena and some taunted fans waiting to enter.
The team's game against the Dallas Mavericks tipped off only a few minutes after the scheduled time. The 17,600-seat arena was sparsely populated.
Several blocks away a City Council meeting was packed with residents discussing the shooting. Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, disrupted the meeting when it began.
__
6:40 p.m.
The brother of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police interrupted a Sacramento City Council meeting by jumping on the desk in front of the mayor and chanting his brother Stephon Clark's name.
Stevante Clark marched into the Tuesday meeting, jumped on the dais and danced around.
He demanded to speak and said he didn't think the council would make meaningful changes as a result of his brother's death.
The council adjourned for roughly 15 minutes as a result of the disruption.
Twenty-two-year-old Stephon Clark was fatally shot by police March 18 in his grandmother's backyard. Officers said they initially thought he had a gun. He was holding a cell phone.
__
4:15 p.m.
The family of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police is skeptical that there will be a proper investigation — even with the state attorney general involved.
The office announced Tuesday that it has joined the investigation into last week's fatal shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark.
The police chief says he hopes the attorney general's involvement will bring faith and transparency to the case that has sparked angry protests.
Clark's uncle, Curtis Gordon, says the family will wait to see what results. He says it's all talk at this point.
Police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.
Activists have sought greater independence in the investigation, with some calling for criminal charges against the two officers.
___
9:50 a.m.
The California attorney general's office is joining an investigation into the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police to provide independent oversight.
Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn announced the partnership Tuesday alongside Attorney General Xavier Becerra (HAH-vee-air Bah-sehr'-ah). He says he hopes it will build "faith and confidence" in the investigation.
The police are investigating the shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark on March 18 by two officers who thought he had a gun. He was holding only a cellphone.
The police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.
Activists have called for greater independence in the investigation and some have argued the two officers should be charged.
Hahn promised transparency in the investigation and urged protesters to exercise calm.
HOPKINSVILLE, Ky. —  The Latest on the fatal shooting of a police officer in Kentucky (all times local):
3:50 a.m.
A man suspected of fatally shooting an off-duty police officer in a small Kentucky city has been killed by law enforcement officials in Tennessee.
Kentucky State Police Trooper Rob Austin says in a statement Friday that 34-year-old James K. Decoursey of Hopkinsville "had a brief encounter with law enforcement" officials in Clarksville, Tennessee, where he "was shot and died from his injuries."
Kentucky State police say Decoursey shot and killed 38-year-old Hopkinsville officer Phillip Meacham Thursday afternoon, then fled on foot then before taking off in a pickup truck.
Meacham, who was married and had two school-age children, had been with the Hopkinsville department since May 2017. Before that worked for about 14 years with the Christian County Sheriff's Department.
Hopkinsville is about 73 miles (117.48 kilometers) northwest of Nashville, Tennessee.
____
1:03 a.m.
The manhunt continues for a man suspected of fatally shooting an off-duty police officer in a small Kentucky city, then fleeing in a stolen truck.
Kentucky State police say 38-year-old Hopkinsville officer Phillip Meacham was shot Thursday afternoon.
Police identified the suspect as 34-year-old James K. Decoursey of Hopkinsville. They say he fled on foot then took off in a 1997 white Chevrolet pickup truck with license plate 2070GH. Police say Decoursey should be treated as armed and dangerous. A Tennessee Highway Patrol helicopter was aiding the search.
Meacham, who was married and had two school-age children, had been with the Hopkinsville department since May 2017. Before that worked for about 14 years with the Christian County Sheriff's Department.
Hopkinsville is about 73 miles (117.48 kilometers) northwest of Nashville, Tennessee.
(Reuters) - Remington Outdoor Co Inc [FREDM.UL], one of the largest U.S. makers of firearms, filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday to carry out a debt-cutting deal with creditors amid mounting public pressure for greater gun control.
The company listed assets in the range of $500 million to $1 billion and liabilities in the range of $500 million to $1 billion. http://bit.ly/2IS9hWH
Remington, America's oldest gun maker, announced the deal in February to reduce its $950 million debtload in a deal that will transfer control of the company to creditors.
The filing comes after a Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida high school that killed 17 and spurred an intense campaign for gun control by activists.
The massacre inspired hundreds of thousands of young Americans to lead huge U.S. anti-gun rallies on Saturday.
In some of the biggest U.S. youth demonstrations for decades, protesters called on lawmakers and President Donald Trump to confront the issue. Voter registration activists fanned out in the crowds, signing up thousands of the nation's newest voters.
Major U.S. companies and retailers have taken some steps to restrict firearm sales.
Citigroup Inc said last week it will require new retail-sector clients to sell firearms only to customers who passed background checks and to bar sales of high-capacity magazines.
Citi also said it was restricting sales for buyers under 21, a move adopted by other large retailers, while Kroger Co's superstore chain Fred Meyer said it will stop selling firearms entirely.
CERBERUS TO LOSE OWNERSHIP
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the private equity firm that controls Remington, will lose ownership in the bankruptcy.
Remington's creditors, which sources told Reuters include Franklin Templeton Investments and JPMorgan Asset Management, will exchange their debt holdings for Remington equity.
The creditors inked the debt-cutting deal prior to the Parkland shooting, and it is unclear if any have exited. The restructuring support agreement allows creditors to sell their holdings, but the buyer is bound by the deal.
One investor told IFR, a Thomson Reuters news provider, that his firm had contemplated buying the Remington loans that will be exchanged into equity, which were offered at as low as 25 cents on the dollar.
"We bowed out because we were uncomfortable," he said.
After a Remington Bushmaster rifle was used in the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in Connecticut in 2012 that killed 20 children and six adults, Cerberus tried unsuccessfully to sell Remington, then known as Freedom Group.
Katie-Mesner Hage, an attorney representing Sandy Hook families in a lawsuit against Remington, said in a prepared statement that she did not expect the gun maker's bankruptcy would affect their case.
Remington and other gunmakers have suffered from slumping sales in the past year as fears of stricter gun laws have faded.
The chief executive of American Outdoor Brands Corp, maker of the Smith & Wesson gun used in the Parkland shooting, said on March 1 that some gun retailers reported increased sales after the Florida school shooting.
Remington filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Gopakumar Warrier)
BATON ROUGE, La. —  The Latest on the fatal police shooting of a black man in Baton Rouge, Louisiana (all times local):
5:30 p.m.
A lawyer for one of the two officers involved in the shooting death of Alton Sterling says his client should remain on the police force.
Attorney Kyle Kershaw said Tuesday that Officer Howie Lake II's actions in Sterling's July 2016 death were in compliance with police procedure.
Earlier Tuesday, Louisiana's attorney general announced that he wouldn't bring criminal charges against Lake and Officer Blane Salamoni.
Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Lake helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but Lake didn't fire his gun.
Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul says he plans to hold a disciplinary hearing this week for the officers. He says he hopes to complete the disciplinary process by Friday.
Salamoni's attorney says he expects his client to be fired.
___
2:10 p.m.
Residents gathered outside the Baton Rouge convenience store where a white police officer shot and killed a black man in 2016 weren't surprised to learn that Louisiana's attorney general ruled out criminal charges against the two officers involved in the deadly struggle.
Only a handful of people were at the Triple S Food Mart less than two hours after Attorney General Jeff Landry on Tuesday announced his decision in the investigation of Alton Sterling's death.
Le'Roi Dunn, a 40-year-old cook, gestured at the spot where Sterling was killed and said it was wrong for the officers to avoid any charges. Dunn said it hurts to see the officers "get away and go on with their lives."
Felma White, a 63-year-old retired food service worker, wore a shirt adorned with screen-printed news clippings showing Sterling's grieving family and newspaper headlines about the shooting. She questioned why authorities didn't immediately release footage from the body cameras worn by the two officers.
___
1:00 p.m.
An attorney for a white Baton Rouge police officer who shot and killed a black man during a struggle says he expects the city's police chief to fire his client.
Officer Blane Salamoni's lawyer, John McLindon, says it's "grossly unfair" that Police Chief Murphy Paul plans to hold a disciplinary hearing less than a week after the end of a criminal investigation of Alton Sterling's July 2016 shooting death.
Paul says he hopes to complete the police department's disciplinary process for the two officers involved in Sterling's deadly shooting by Friday.
Earlier Tuesday, Louisiana's attorney general ruled out state criminal charges against Salamoni or Officer Howie Lake II.
McLindon says he believes it's a "foregone conclusion" that Paul will fire Salamoni.
___
12:20 p.m.
Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul says he intends to release body camera and surveillance video of the fatal shooting of a black man after he concludes the disciplinary process for the two white officers involved.
Paul said Tuesday he plans to hold a disciplinary hearing this week for officers. He says he hopes to complete the disciplinary process by Friday.
Earlier in the day, Louisiana's attorney general ruled out criminal charges against the officers in the July 2016 death of Alton Sterling.
Paul says the officers or their lawyers will be allowed to address the disciplinary panel, consisting of Paul and three deputy chiefs.
___
12 p.m.
Family members of a black man fatally shot in a struggle with two white police officers are railing against a decision by the state attorney general to not prosecute the officers.
During a news conference Tuesday, Quinyetta McMillon said the way the officers killed Alton Sterling was "in cold blood." McMillon is the mother of one of Sterling's children, Cameron.
Attorney General Jeff Landry announced earlier in the day that he would not pursue criminal charges against the two officers in the 2016 incident.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but didn't fire his gun.
The shooting sparked widespread protests.
One of Sterling's aunts, Sandra Sterling, said Salamoni took an oath to protect and serve, not "protect and kill."
___
11:20 a.m.
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry says a black man fatally shot by two white police officers had illegal drugs in his system at the time of the encounter outside a convenience store.
The Tuesday revelation came as Landry announced there would be no criminal charges against the two officers in the Alton Sterling's 2016 death.
Speaking at a news conference, Landry said it was "reasonable" to conclude Sterling was under the influence of drugs during the struggle with the officers "and that contributed to his non-compliance."
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but Lake didn't fire his gun.
___
10:25 a.m.
Louisiana's attorney general has ruled out criminal charges against two white Baton Rouge police officers in the fatal shooting of a black man whose death fueled widespread protests.
Attorney General Jeff Landry's announcement Tuesday comes nearly 11 months after the Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges in Alton Sterling's July 2016 death.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but Lake didn't fire his gun.
Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, leading to nightly protests during which nearly 200 people were arrested. The officers' body cameras and a store surveillance camera also recorded the encounter.
___
10:05 p.m.
Lawyers say Louisiana's attorney general is set to meet with relatives of a black man who was shot and killed in 2016 by a white police officer and inform them whether his office will charge either of the two officers involved in the struggle.
Attorney General Jeff Landry's spokeswoman declined comment on the planned meeting Tuesday morning, saying only that it will have an update at a news conference Tuesday on the investigation into the 2016 shooting death of Alton Sterling.
However, attorneys L. Chris Stewart and Brandon DeCuir, who represent Alton Sterling's five children, say Landry is to meet beforehand Tuesday morning with relatives of the slain main.
The U.S. Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges in the case nearly 11 months ago.
MIAMI —  Some big name advertisers are dropping Fox News personality Laura Ingraham after she criticized one of the Florida school shooting survivors on social media.
Ingraham, a right-wing host who landed a rare one-on-one interview with President Donald Trump last year, wrote on Twitter, "David Hogg Rejected By Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it."
Hogg, a student a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who filmed students hiding from the gunman in their classrooms, was quick to respond, tweeting a list of a dozen advertisers and encouraging followers to immediately call them and ask them to drop Ingraham. Hogg has faced intense criticism from right-wing conservatives and gun advocates who have falsely called him a crisis actor following the Valentine's Day shooting in Parkland that killed 17.
"Soooo @IngrahamAngle what are your biggest advertisers ... Asking for a friend," he wrote with the hashtag #BoycottIngramAdverts.
The online home goods store Wayfair, food company Nestle, travel website TripAdvisor and Rachel Ray's dog food Nutrish all said they are removing their support from Ingraham.
Wayfair said in a statement that it supports "open dialogue and debate on issues. However, the decision of an adult to personally criticize a high school student who has lost his classmates in an unspeakable tragedy is not consistent with our values. We do not plan to continue advertising on this particular program."
TripAdvisor says it does not "condone the inappropriate comments made by this broadcaster. In our view, these statements focused on a high school student, cross the line of decency. As such, we have made a decision to stop advertising on that program."
A telephone message left for Nutrish was not immediately returned but the company tweeted it was in the process of removing ads from Ingraham's show.
Ingraham apologized Thursday on Twitter, saying, "On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland."
Ingraham tweeted that she thought she was the first to feature Hogg on her show after the shooting and added, "he's welcome to come on my show anytime for a productive discussion."
Hogg tweeted later Thursday that an apology to save advertisers wasn't enough and that he'd only accept Ingraham's apology if she denounced the way Fox News has treated his friends.
"It's time to love thy neighbor, not mudsling at children," Hogg wrote.
CHICAGO —  A judge says trial will begin this summer for a Chicago police officer charged with murder in the 2014 shooting death of black teenager Laquan McDonald.
Cook County Judge Vincent Gaughan said Wednesday that he won't give a specific month that Officer Jason Van Dyke's first-degree murder trial will start, "but it will go to trial this summer." Gaughan says he doesn't want bad weather to keep people from getting to the Chicago courthouse.
Van Dyke was indicted more than two years ago after the release of dashcam video showing Van Dyke shoot McDonald 16 times.
Also on Wednesday, defense attorneys filed a request to change the trial venue. They have said a new venue is needed because a fair trial in Chicago is impossible.
GREENSBORO, N.C. —  A North Carolina police officer has shot and wounded a suspect after a chase.
Greensboro police shot and wounded a man Tuesday afternoon who was in a car investigators had linked to the shooting and wounding of a 16-year-old-girl earlier this week.
Police spokeswoman Susan Danielsen said in a news release that around 3:45 p.m. officers stopped the vehicle.
Danielsen said two people in the vehicle ran. She said a K9 officer and his dog caught up with one the suspects, who raised a handgun. She says the officer then fired several rounds, hitting the suspect at least once.
The man was taken to a hospital and was in guarded condition.
The officer wasn't hurt.
Danielsen says the officer and suspect are black men. Their names weren't immediately released.
AUSTIN, Texas —  Federal prosecutors say a man charged with trying to assassinate a Texas judge had photos of her car and electronic searches for her home address in his cellphone.
Trial began Monday in Austin for Chimene Onyeri. He's charged with attempted murder and other counts in the November 2015 shooting of state District Judge Julie Kocurek. She survived.
Authorities say Onyeri wanted Kocurek dead to avoid going to prison on a probation violation. He had been before the judge about a month earlier.
The judge's teenage son testified he drove the family home from a high school football game. He says he had gotten out of the car to move a bag of leaves from the driveway when a man wearing black approached and fired.
Onyeri has pleaded not guilty.
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.
This week's images include the brother of police shooting victim Stephon Clark confronting the mayor of Sacramento, Calif.; tear gas canisters falling on Palestinian protesters at the Gaza Strip-Israel border; and Christian Holy Week rituals from around the world.
___
This gallery contains photos from the week of March 24-30, 2018.
See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com
___
Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers
Visit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/
___
This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
CAYCE, S.C. —  Officials have released the name of a man shot and killed by sheriff's deputies in South Carolina following an hours-long standoff on Interstate 26.
Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher said in a news release that 29-year-old Robert B. Shaw of West Columbia died after he was shot around 1:45 p.m. Wednesday.
Shaw led officers on a chase before his vehicle was disabled by tire-deflating strips. That led to a standoff that blocked traffic on the main route between Columbia and Charleston.
Sheriff Jay Koon said negotiations broke down and his officers fired when the suspect made a sudden move.
Four deputies have been placed on leave while the shooting is investigated. State Law Enforcement Division spokesman Thom Berry said West was white, as are all four deputies.
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
WASHINGTON —  Center LaMarcus Aldridge left the San Antonio Spurs' game at the Wizards with a knee injury and will not return.
The team announced the bruised left knee in the third quarter after Aldridge limped off the floor late in the second Tuesday night. Aldridge did not return to the bench after halftime.
Aldridge was the game's leading scorer with 13 points on 4-of-6 shooting in more than 17 minutes on the floor before going off.
With Kawhi Leonard limited to just nine games because of a nagging quadriceps injury, Aldridge has kept the Spurs afloat by averaging 23.2 points and 8.4 rebounds. Coach Gregg Popovich said before the game that Aldridge's success has been one of the most enjoyable parts of this season for him.
___
More AP NBA coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
AUSTIN, Texas —  A Texas police officer has been shot in an exchange of gunfire that led to a standoff at a home.
Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said during a news conference early Monday that the shooting occurred late Sunday as officers responded to an "urgent call" at a housing duplex.
Manley says officers initially didn't find anything amiss and were preparing to leave when a shot was fired from inside the home.
Manley says one officer was shot in the arm, while a second officer was hurt as they rushed to escape the gunfire.
A robot was later used to breach the front door of the duplex. Manley says the suspect was fatally shot early Monday when he stepped outside with a woman.
Manley didn't explain what prompted officers to shoot the man. The woman was unharmed.
Manley says the officers are expected to recover.
BATON ROUGE, La. —  Nearly two years after a black man was shot and killed during a struggle with two white police officers, Louisiana's attorney general isn't pursuing charges against the officers in a decision that infuriated Alton Sterling's family and frustrated residents in the neighborhood where he died.
Since federal officials have already declined to charge the officers, the decision Tuesday by Attorney General Jeff Landry ends the criminal investigation of the two officers at the center of a case that highlighted racial tensions across the country.
The July 5, 2016, shooting came amid increased scrutiny of fatal encounters between police and black men. The day after Sterling's shooting, Philando Castile was killed in Minnesota by a police officer and the aftermath streamed on Facebook by his girlfriend. Then as demonstrators in Dallas protested those police shootings, a gunman killed five police officers. And on July 17, a black military veteran shot and killed three Baton Rouge law enforcement officers.
Officer Blane Salamoni shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store where the 37-year-old black man was selling homemade CDs. Officer Howie Lake II helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, but didn't fire his gun. Two cellphone videos of the shooting quickly spread on social media, prompting large protests.
Family and supporters of Sterling denounced Landry's decision in an angry news conference shortly after many of them met with the attorney general to hear his findings.
Quinyetta McMillon, the mother of one of Sterling's children, Cameron, said the officers killed Sterling "in cold blood."
"We're all out of tears. We have nothing else in us to cry about now," she said. "There's no amount of money in this world that can give those kids back their father."
Residents near the convenience store where Sterling was killed said they weren't surprised. Le'Roi Dunn, a 40-year-old cook, gestured at the spot where Sterling was killed and said it was wrong for the officers to avoid charges.
"It hurts, though, to see them get away and go on with their lives," Dunn said.
But Landry said his office reviewed all evidence compiled by the Justice Department, conducted its own witness interviews and concluded there was no case to be made. He pointed to toxicology and urine test results released Tuesday showing Sterling had cocaine, methamphetamine, fentanyl and other drugs in his system and said that contributed to Sterling's "non-compliance" with the officers' commands. He said two independent experts also determined the officers used reasonable force.
"I know the Sterling family is hurting," Landry told reporters. "I know that they may not agree with the decision.
L. Chris Stewart, a lawyer for two of Sterling's five children blasted the report as biased, saying it included things like Sterling's criminal history that did not pertain to the case.
State and federal authorities said Salamoni yelled that Sterling was reaching for a gun in his pocket before shooting him three times, and then fired three more shots into Sterling's back when he began to sit up and move. A 34-page report by Landry's office said it's "important to note" that Sterling's hands were concealed from the officers as he sat up and rolled away from Salamoni.
The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling's pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.
Video footage shows Sterling threatening someone with a firearm before the officers responded to a report of a man with a gun outside the Triple S Food Mart, according to Landry's report.
Now attention turns to the two officers' future with the police department as well as a pending civil suit.
Lake and Salamoni have been on paid administrative leave since the shooting. Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said he intends to conclude the disciplinary process against the officers by Friday and once concluded he'll release body camera and surveillance footage of the shooting — never seen publicly before.
Salamoni's attorney, John McLindon, said he expects his client to be fired and called it "grossly unfair" that a disciplinary hearing is planned so soon after the end of the criminal investigation.
"I believe it's a foregone conclusion," McLindon said.
A lawyer for Lake said his client should remain on the force. Attorney Kyle Kershaw said Lake's actions on the encounter complied with police procedure.
Lawyers for Sterling's five children have filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city of Baton Rouge, its police department and former police chief, and the two officers. It alleges a pattern of racist behavior and excessive force by the Baton Rouge police.
CHARLESTON, W.Va. —  A police pursuit that ended in a hail of gunfire has left a West Virginia man dead.
The Charleston Gazette-Mail reports that Kanawha Metro 911 dispatchers said Dunbar police officers began chasing a vehicle driven by 39-year-old Rodney Toler on Thursday.
They say the vehicle crossed the Dunbar Toll Bridge into South Charleston, leading Dunbar, and then South Charleston, officers east through the city into Charleston.
Charleston police spokeswoman Lt. Autumn Davis says Toler crashed the vehicle into a semi-truck and began firing at officers. South Charleston police returned fire, striking him.
Davis says she didn't know how many times Toler was hit, or whether he had gotten out of the vehicle when the shooting began.
Toler was pronounced dead at the scene, and no officers were injured.
___
Information from: The Charleston Gazette-Mail, http://wvgazettemail.com.
Rocker Ted Nugent says the Florida students calling for gun control have "no soul" and are "mushy brained children."
The 69-year-old made the comments Friday while defending the National Rifle Association as a guest on the Joe Pags show, a nationally syndicated conservative radio program.
Nugent, a longtime member of the NRA's board of directors, said survivors of the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are wrong to blame the NRA and its members for mass shootings.
"These poor children, I'm afraid to say, it hurts me to say, but the evidence is irrefutable: They have no soul," Nugent said. He added that the gun control measures the students support amount to "spiritual suicide" and "will cause more death and mayhem."
A representative for Nugent did not respond to a request for comment on Saturday.
Some Parkland students responded on social media and demanded an apology.
"If only he saw all the tears. If only he had to look into the eyes I've looked into. If only he saw what this did to all of us," junior Cameron Kasky said on Twitter. "And here the NRA is, receiving more fear-based donations than ever. Talk about 'no soul.' This guy better apologize. Seriously."
Senior Kyra Parrow said it's funny that the NRA rails against bullying while Nugent was "being a 5 year old acting like a bully" to her and her classmates.
Nugent made the comments the same day several advertisers dropped Fox News personality Laura Ingraham after she mocked a survivor of the Parkland shooting online.
Ingraham said Friday she will take a weeklong "Easter break" with her children while guest hosts fill in on her show, "The Ingraham Angle."
She drew backlash Wednesday when she shared an article on Twitter saying student David Hogg had been rejected by four colleges and was whining about it. She later apologized and said Hogg should be proud of his grades.
ALBANY, N.Y. —  Two ex-law enforcement officers-turned-lawmakers are asking state parole officials to reconsider releasing an inmate who has served 44 years in prison for killing two New York City police officers.
Herman Bell is scheduled to be released from prison April 17 after being granted parole this month. He and two other members of the Black Liberation Army were convicted of fatally shooting Waverly Jones and Joseph Piagentini after luring the officers to a public housing complex in 1971.
Ex-New York City police officer Martin Golden and former Erie County sheriff and state trooper Patrick Gallivan are both Republican state senators. On Thursday, they called on the parole board to reconsider Bell's release.
They say board members didn't consider key aspects of Bell's case, including the wishes of the slain officers' families.
A judge has ruled that the revelation that the Pulse nightclub shooter's father was an FBI informant for 11 years before the attack has little bearing on the trial of the gunman's widow.
U.S. District Judge Paul Byron on Monday rejected a defense motion for a mistrial of Noor Salman, who is accused of helping her husband plan his June 2016 mass shooting at the gay nightclub in Orlando, where he killed 49 people.
Lawyers for Salman said that because prosecutors didn't disclose that Mateen's father, Seddique Mateen, was an FBI informant until halfway through the trial, her Fifth Amendment right to due process and Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial were denied.
The judge disagreed.
"This trial is not about Seddique Mateen. It's about Noor Salman," the judge said.
Salman, now 31 and the mother of a small child, is being tried in federal court in Orlando. Her defense is scheduled to wrap up this week and lawyers will give closing arguments.
In court on Monday, an FBI agent testified that they considered trying to develop Omar Mateen as an informant, like his father, after investigating him in 2013 and finding he didn't have ties to terrorism.
Salman's lawyers say the government's belated disclosure about Mateen's father and his ties to the FBI has prevented them from exploring the possibilities that Seddique Mateen was more directly involved, and that Salman may have been framed to hide the government's mistakes.
The government's "violations in this case have placed Ms. Salman, the jury, and this Court in a dark wood where the search for truth has been thwarted," they wrote, paraphrasing and citing 15th Century Italian poet Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy.
Her lawyers' motion said U.S. Attorney Sara Sweeney sent them an email Saturday revealing some details of the FBI's involvement with Seddique Mateen's activities leading up to the Pulse attack.
"I have just received authorization to disclose the following information about Seddique Mateen," her email said. "Seddique Mateen was a FBI confidential human source at various points in time between January 2005 and June 2016."
This email was sent after jurors heard Shahla Mateen, Omar's mother, deny during cross-examination that her husband had any relationship with the FBI.
The email also revealed other details the prosecution didn't tell jurors, including the discovery in the hours after the shooting that "receipts for money transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan" made in the days and weeks before the shooting were found at Seddique Mateen's home, and that in 2012, an anonymous tipster had accused Seddique Mateen of "seeking to raise $50,000 - $100,000 via a donation drive to contribute towards an attack against the government of Pakistan."
Defense attorneys said had they known about this information in advance of her trial, they would have investigated "whether Mateen's father was involved in or had foreknowledge of the Pulse attack," they wrote.
Prosecutors told the jury that Salman knew Omar Mateen was buying rounds of ammunition for his AR-15, helped him spend thousands of dollars before the attack and knew about his plan when he left their home in the hours before the shooting. They also say she lied in an attempt to mislead FBI agents and had knowledge of her husband's sick fascination with violent jihadist videos and terrorism.
Defense attorneys describe Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ, who was abused by her husband. This latest evidence, they said, points instead to Mateen's father as a potential accomplice.
A man who answered a Florida phone number for Seddique Mateen hung up after asking an AP reporter to identify himself.
The revelation that the Pulse nightclub shooter's father was an FBI informant for 11 years before the attack has little bearing on the trial of the gunman's widow, a judge ruled Monday.
U.S. District Judge Paul Byron rejected a defense motion for a mistrial of Noor Salman, who is accused of helping her husband plan his June 2016 mass shooting at the gay nightclub in Orlando, where he killed 49 people.
Lawyers for Salman said that because prosecutors didn't disclose that Mateen's father, Seddique Mateen, was an FBI informant until halfway through the trial, her Fifth Amendment right to due process and Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial were denied.
The judge disagreed.
"This trial is not about Seddique Mateen. It's about Noor Salman," the judge said.
Salman, now 31 and the mother of a small child, is being tried in federal court in Orlando. Her defense is scheduled to wrap up this week and lawyers will give closing arguments.
In court on Monday, an FBI agent testified that they considered trying to develop Omar Mateen as an informant, like his father, after investigating him in 2013 and finding he didn't have ties to terrorism.
Salman's lawyers say the government's belated disclosure about Mateen's father and his ties to the FBI has prevented them from exploring the possibilities that Seddique Mateen was more directly involved, and that Salman may have been framed to hide the government's mistakes.
The government's "violations in this case have placed Ms. Salman, the jury, and this Court in a dark wood where the search for truth has been thwarted," they wrote, paraphrasing and citing 15th Century Italian poet Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy.
Her lawyers' motion said U.S. Attorney Sara Sweeney sent them an email Saturday revealing some details of the FBI's involvement with Seddique Mateen's activities leading up to the Pulse attack.
"I have just received authorization to disclose the following information about Seddique Mateen," her email said. "Seddique Mateen was a FBI confidential human source at various points in time between January 2005 and June 2016."
This email was sent after jurors heard Shahla Mateen, Omar's mother, deny during cross-examination that her husband had any relationship with the FBI.
The email also revealed other details the prosecution didn't tell jurors, including the discovery in the hours after the shooting that "receipts for money transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan" made in the days and weeks before the shooting were found at Seddique Mateen's home, and that in 2012, an anonymous tipster had accused Seddique Mateen of "seeking to raise $50,000 - $100,000 via a donation drive to contribute towards an attack against the government of Pakistan."
Defense attorneys said had they known about this information in advance of her trial, they would have investigated "whether Mateen's father was involved in or had foreknowledge of the Pulse attack," they wrote.
Prosecutors told the jury that Salman knew Omar Mateen was buying rounds of ammunition for his AR-15, helped him spend thousands of dollars before the attack and knew about his plan when he left their home in the hours before the shooting. They also say she lied in an attempt to mislead FBI agents and had knowledge of her husband's sick fascination with violent jihadist videos and terrorism.
Defense attorneys describe Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ, who was abused by her husband. This latest evidence, they said, points instead to Mateen's father as a potential accomplice.
A man who answered a Florida phone number for Seddique Mateen hung up after asking an AP reporter to identify himself.
GREAT MILLS, Md. —  The student who fatally shot a female classmate last week at a Maryland high school died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound during a confrontation with a school resource officer who also fired his gun, authorities said Monday.
The St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office said in a statement that 17-year-old Austin Rollins fired a fatal shot to his head just as he encountered sheriff's deputy Blaine Gaskill. The shot fired by Gaskill struck the gun in Rollins' hand, the sheriff's office added.
The shooting occurred last Tuesday at Great Mills High School, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) southeast of Washington. Jaelynn Willey, 16, died two days later after being taken off life support. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday. The sheriff's office said Rollins and the girl had been in a relationship that recently ended.
Desmond Barnes, 14, who was shot in the thigh, was released from a hospital a day after the shooting.
New details released by the sheriff's office show how Rollins died. The sheriff's office also released a timeline of the incident and 911 calls from adults and students, including the 14-year-old who survived.
According to the sheriff's office, Rollins entered the main entrance of the school the day of the shooting about five minutes before he shot Willey in the head with his father's gun. The same bullet traveled into the leg of Desmond Barnes, who had sought shelter in a classroom.
Rollins then turned a corner and passed several classrooms before the confrontation with the school resource officer, which occurred about three minutes after shooting Willey, the sheriff's office said. Rollins and Gaskill fired their weapons about 30 seconds later.
In one of the 911 calls released, Barnes tells a dispatcher, "I was just shot in my school."
A woman, possibly a teacher, gets on the phone and tells the dispatcher that four students are inside her classroom, one of them shot and bleeding.
"We have him laying down," she said. "I'm afraid to transport him to safer place."
For the next several minutes, the woman talks to the dispatcher or is heard talking to Barnes. A voice on the school's intercom system urges students to stay in their classrooms.
"It'll be OK," the woman can be heard saying. "It's OK ... They're coming. They're coming. Don't worry."
Barnes and the dispatcher talk again. The teen said he's been shot in the back of the thigh and that "it's burning."
"Oh my knee hurts so bad," he said.
"We're getting help to you Desmond," the dispatcher replied. "Stay strong for me buddy."
Emergency responders soon arrive.
"Hi Desmond, we're putting a tourniquet on you, all right?" one of them is heard telling him. "A tourniquet stops the bleeding."
Another person who called 911 from the school, possibly a teacher, tells a dispatcher that she heard a single gunshot and saw a girl bleeding outside the classroom.
"We're hiding behind my desk," the caller said before counting each of the 11 students with her, one by one.
AUSTIN, Texas —  A Texas police officer has been shot in an exchange of gunfire that led to a standoff at a home.
Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said during a news conference early Monday that the shooting occurred late Sunday as officers responded to an "urgent call" at a housing duplex.
Manley says officers initially didn't find anything amiss and were preparing to leave when a shot was fired from inside the home.
Manley says one officer was shot in the arm, while a second officer was hurt as they rushed to escape the gunfire.
A robot was later used to breach the front door of the duplex. Manley says the suspect was fatally shot early Monday when he stepped outside with a woman.
Manley didn't explain what prompted officers to shoot the man. The woman was unharmed.
Manley says the officers are expected to recover.
TOULOUSE, France —  A gunman shot and gravely wounded an exiled Azeri journalist and killed his wife near the southern French city of Toulouse on Friday, in an incident the local mayor said appeared to be a settling of political scores.
Rahim Namazov was an outspoken critic of the Azeri political leadership and served time in prison before seeking exile in France in 2010.
In a video posted on YouTube in December that year, Namazov said he was jailed after writing stories about brutality against soldiers in units of the Azeri military. He said he had spent six months in solitary confinement.
"It's the journalistic profession, the father of a family and the freedom of the press that has been attacked today," Karine Michelet-Traval, the mayor of Colomiers where the shooting occurred, said in a statement.
In separate comments to La Depeche newspaper, she said: "You can't help but think this was a settling of scores."
Namazov's wife was killed in the shooting. A police source said she had been shot in the head, apparently at close range. Witnesses spoke of hearing multiple gunshots, local media reported.
The local prosecutor is due to make a statement at 16h00 (1400 GMT).
Human Rights Watch said last year the Azeri government continued its crackdown on dissenting voices and that reports of torture persisted. It also said independent media outlets faced harassment and closure and critical journalists faced threats and intimidation aimed at silencing them.
(Reporting by Johanna Decorse; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)
A judge has ruled that the revelation that the Pulse nightclub shooter's father was an FBI informant for 11 years before the attack has little bearing on the trial of the gunman's widow.
U.S. District Judge Paul Byron on Monday rejected a defense motion for a mistrial of Noor Salman, who is accused of helping her husband plan his June 2016 mass shooting at the gay nightclub in Orlando, where he killed 49 people.
Lawyers for Salman said that because prosecutors didn't disclose that Mateen's father, Seddique Mateen, was an FBI informant until halfway through the trial, her Fifth Amendment right to due process and Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial were denied.
The judge disagreed.
"This trial is not about Seddique Mateen. It's about Noor Salman," the judge said.
Salman, now 31 and the mother of a small child, is being tried in federal court in Orlando. Her defense is scheduled to wrap up this week and lawyers will give closing arguments.
In court on Monday, an FBI agent testified that they considered trying to develop Omar Mateen as an informant, like his father, after investigating him in 2013 and finding he didn't have ties to terrorism.
Salman's lawyers say the government's belated disclosure about Mateen's father and his ties to the FBI has prevented them from exploring the possibilities that Seddique Mateen was more directly involved, and that Salman may have been framed to hide the government's mistakes.
The government's "violations in this case have placed Ms. Salman, the jury, and this Court in a dark wood where the search for truth has been thwarted," they wrote, paraphrasing and citing 15th Century Italian poet Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy.
Her lawyers' motion said U.S. Attorney Sara Sweeney sent them an email Saturday revealing some details of the FBI's involvement with Seddique Mateen's activities leading up to the Pulse attack.
"I have just received authorization to disclose the following information about Seddique Mateen," her email said. "Seddique Mateen was a FBI confidential human source at various points in time between January 2005 and June 2016."
This email was sent after jurors heard Shahla Mateen, Omar's mother, deny during cross-examination that her husband had any relationship with the FBI.
The email also revealed other details the prosecution didn't tell jurors, including the discovery in the hours after the shooting that "receipts for money transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan" made in the days and weeks before the shooting were found at Seddique Mateen's home, and that in 2012, an anonymous tipster had accused Seddique Mateen of "seeking to raise $50,000 - $100,000 via a donation drive to contribute towards an attack against the government of Pakistan."
Defense attorneys said had they known about this information in advance of her trial, they would have investigated "whether Mateen's father was involved in or had foreknowledge of the Pulse attack," they wrote.
Prosecutors told the jury that Salman knew Omar Mateen was buying rounds of ammunition for his AR-15, helped him spend thousands of dollars before the attack and knew about his plan when he left their home in the hours before the shooting. They also say she lied in an attempt to mislead FBI agents and had knowledge of her husband's sick fascination with violent jihadist videos and terrorism.
Defense attorneys describe Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ, who was abused by her husband. This latest evidence, they said, points instead to Mateen's father as a potential accomplice.
A man who answered a Florida phone number for Seddique Mateen hung up after asking an AP reporter to identify himself.
JACKSON, Mich. —  A jury has convicted a Michigan man of first-degree felony murder after he was accused of breaking into a home and shooting a woman while streaming the attack on Facebook Live.
Twenty-year-old Anthony Gelia also was found guilty Monday of first-degree home invasion and a felony firearms charge stemming from the November 2016 killing of 26-year-old Brittany Southwell.
Jurors appeared shaken Friday while they watched a Facebook Live recording recovered from Gelia's cellphone showing him kick in a door and open fire.
A medical examiner said Southwell died from a bullet that entered her side and punctured her lungs.
The Jackson Citizen Patriot reports Gelia is scheduled to be sentenced May 9. A felony murder conviction in Michigan carries a mandatory life sentence without the possibility of parole.
___
Information from: Jackson Citizen Patriot, http://www.mlive.com/jackson
UPPER DARBY, Pa. —  A Taiwanese exchange student accused of threatening a shooting at his high school had ammunition in the home where he was staying and researched how to buy weapons, police said Wednesday.
The 18-year-old student, An Tso Sun, threatened to "shoot up" the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School on May 1, Upper Darby police said. Sun later said he was joking but was charged with making terroristic threats, they said.
"Kudos to the person who stepped forward and helped to avert a tragedy," the police department said in a tweet.
A military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches, a high-powered crossbow and live ammunition were found in Sun's bedroom in Lansdowne, Superintendent Michael Chitwood said. A search of his school-issued iPad indicated searches on how to buy an AK-47 or an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle, police said.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest.
"I don't believe what he said rises to the crime of terroristic threatening," Latoison said. "He said, 'Just kidding.' I understand the heightened sensitivity, but he is not from here, he didn't possess the same social skills of what it is to grow up in the post-Columbine generation. ... You and I understand that it's not a funny joke, but maybe he doesn't understand that."
He declined to comment on the allegations that ammunition was found and the defendant researched buying weapons but said that even if true neither was illegal.
Sun was taken to Delaware County Prison in lieu of $100,000 bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for April 11.
___
This story has been corrected to show Latoison is a defense attorney, not a public defender.
DETROIT —  The Latest on the exoneration of Richard Phillips, a Detroit man who spent 45 years in prison (all times local):
11:55 a.m.
A Detroit man exonerated of murder after 45 years in prison says the justice system works — "it just didn't work fast enough."
Richard Phillips won't face a second trial. His conviction was overturned last year based on new evidence from a co-defendant at the 1972 trial. Prosecutor Kym Worthy says an additional investigation shows Phillips had no role in a 1971 fatal shooting.
Phillips had been free on bond since December and likely will qualify for more than $2 million under Michigan's wrongful conviction law.
He's very upbeat. Phillips says he's "not a bitter man" because he's "never carried bitterness."
Judge Kevin Cox says the 71-year-old Phillips has seen the "worst and the best of the criminal justice system."
___
11:45 a.m.
A Michigan man whose murder conviction was thrown out after he spent 45 years in prison will not face a second trial.
Prosecutor Kym Worthy said Wednesday that she's dropping the case against Richard Phillips. She says he was the victim of false testimony by a key witness.
Worthy says what happened to Phillips "was not justice at all."
Phillips' murder conviction was thrown out last summer and he's been free since December. He'll likely be eligible for more than $2 million under Michigan's wrongful conviction law.
Phillips has long maintained that he had nothing to do with the 1971 fatal shooting of Gregory Harris. In 2014, the Innocence Clinic at University of Michigan law school learned that a co-defendant said Phillips played absolutely no role in the killing.
FOGELSVILLE, Pa. —  A suspected shoplifter wearing a wig and lifelike mask shot once at a trooper in the parking lot of a Pennsylvania Walmart before the officer shot back and killed him, state police said Thursday.
Capt. Richard D'Ambrosio said store employees summoned police shortly after 9 p.m. Wednesday because a loss prevention officer thought the man may have been the same person who pulled a gun on Walmart employees in a neighboring county a few weeks earlier.
The suspect abandoned a full cart after seeing a trooper had entered the store in Fogelsville, about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southwest of Allentown, to investigate.
D'Ambrosio said the man in his late 20s ran from the officer and pulled a gun out of his waistband, firing it once without hitting anyone.
"The trooper was yelling the entire time, 'State police, stop, stop,' so he was given more than enough notice that he was being chased by a police officer," D'Ambrosio said.
The suspect got into his vehicle and pointed the handgun at the trooper about 45 feet (14 meters) away, who then shot him through the door and window, striking him about seven times and killing him, police said.
Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said his preliminary review suggests the shooting by police was justified.
Authorities said much of the encounter was captured on store security cameras, inside and outside the building.
A loaded Glock .40-caliber handgun was recovered from the man's lap inside the car.
There will be an autopsy on the suspect, who was not immediately identified.
The trooper, a four-year veteran who also was not named by authorities, was placed on administrative duty while the shooting is investigated.
"Obviously he's fired up a little bit, but he's doing OK," D'Ambrosio said.
D'Ambrosio said the earlier incident occurred at a Walmart in Schuylkill County in early March.
In that case, a man was confronted by a loss prevention office before he displayed a gun. The store employees stepped away from him, and he left.
D'Ambrosio said investigators are "pretty sure," but are not certain, that was the same man killed on Wednesday.
Responding to public outcry over a police shooting in which an unarmed black man was killed in his own backyard in Sacramento, Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California said Tuesday his office would step in to oversee the investigation.
The shooting of Stephon Clark, 22, widely viewed in publicly released police videos, has triggered demonstrations and community anguish, the latest example of an African-American man killed by the police under ambiguous circumstances.
Mr. Becerra, speaking with city officials, including the mayor and police chief, announced that the California Department of Justice would also review the Sacramento police’s training and policies regarding the use of force.
Chief Daniel Hahn of the Sacramento Police Department said he welcomed the state’s involvement in the wake of “extremely high emotions, anger and hurt in our city.” He said his department would grant full access to state investigators.
Mr. Clark was killed March 18 by officers responding to a report of a suspect breaking the windows of vehicles. Officers confronted Mr. Clark in the backyard of his grandmother’s home, where he lived, at which point he advanced toward the officers while extending an object, according to an initial police statement.
Video from body cameras and a police helicopter overhead showed that officers shouted that Mr. Clark had a gun, and then fired 20 shots, continuing to shoot after he dropped to his hands and knees.
When officers examined Mr. Clark’s body, however, the only object they found was a cellphone.
Benjamin Crump, a prominent civil rights lawyer retained by Mr. Clark’s family and who earlier represented the family of Trayvon Martin of Florida, called on Monday for “justice” for Mr. Clark at a public appearance with Sacramento civil rights leaders.
Mr. Becerra promised that the state, working with the local police, would pursue a thorough and fair investigation.
“Our independent oversight of the investigation and our separate review of the department will be based on the facts and the law,” he said.
