JAKARTA, Indonesia —  A commander of rebels in Indonesia's easternmost Papua region said Tuesday that as many as 100 villagers have taken shelter with them in a mountainous jungle following an Indonesian military attack.
The military and Papuan independence fighters have given starkly different accounts of the clashes that began Sunday near the U.S.-owned Grasberg copper and gold mine in the remote region. The number of combatants killed is at least two based on each side's statements.
A National Liberation Army of West Papua commander, Hendrik Wanmang, said indigenous Papuan villagers, mostly women and children, fled into the jungle after Indonesian soldiers set fire to their homes.
"Their condition is now safe in the jungle with us although they only eat whatever they find in the forest," he said.
The Indonesian military spokesman for the Papua region, Col. Muhammad Aidi, said a joint force of soldiers and police has freed six villages in the mountainous Tembagapura area from separatist control and accused the rebels of burning homes.
An insurgency has simmered in Papua since the early 1960s when Indonesia annexed the region that had remained under Dutch control following Indonesian independence nearly two decades earlier.
The giant gold and copper mine, owned by Freeport-McMoran Inc., is a lightning rod for Papuan grievances. Its rich mineral reserves have been shipped abroad for decades by the U.S. company and provided significant tax income for the Indonesian government. But indigenous Papuans have benefited little and are poorer, sicker and more likely to die young than people elsewhere in Indonesia.
Tembagapura, a district near the mine, was the scene of a standoff between the military and rebels in November when the military said rebels, which it refers to as an armed separatist criminal group, were holding hundreds of villagers hostage. That claim was denied by the liberation army. Villagers who were migrants from other parts of Indonesia left, but indigenous Papuans remained in the villages.
Aidi said drone observations showed the Indonesian force of 50 had killed two rebel fighters and injured dozens in the "shootout" Sunday.
The rebels "burned some houses before they fled," he said.
Wanmang said 28 soldiers and two of their local guides were killed in the fighting and a 10-year-old boy burned to death after his village was shelled by the military. Both sides deny most of the other's claims.
Wanmang admitted that rebels had earlier burned down a hospital and a school in the area. He said the hospital was owned by Freeport but did not help Papuans while the school was used by Indonesia to indoctrinate young Papuans.
"We have never and will not burn villagers' houses," he said. "We also strongly deny the TNI (Indonesian military) statement saying that they have managed to free the villages previously held hostage by us. It is not true, since those villages were our villages, our own homeland."
HILO, Hawaii —  Hawaii officials say a man has been seriously hurt in a shark attack, prompting authorities to close part of a beach on the Big Island.
State Department of Land and Natural Resources Dan Dennison said in an email alert that the incident happened around 9:30 a.m. Saturday on Kukio Beach near Hualalai.
A 25-year-old man was airlifted by Hawaii County Fire Department firefighters to a hospital with multiple injuries to his hand and leg.
His condition was not immediately known.
Dennison says per standard procedure, beach closure signs warning visitors will be displayed for a mile (1.6 kilometers) on either side of the incident for the rest of the day.
He says a decision will be made Sunday morning whether to reopen the beach.
MENIFEE, Calif. —  Just hours before she shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters, Nasim Aghdam calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home.
During the 20-minute interview with officers early Tuesday, she did not mention being angry with YouTube or having accused the company of suppressing her video posts. She gave no indication she was a threat to herself or others.
"It was a very normal conversation. There was nothing in her behavior that suggested anything unusual," said Mountain View Police Chief Max Bosel.
Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking through a parking garage into a courtyard at YouTube's campus south of San Francisco, where she opened fire with a handgun and wounded three people. She then killed herself.
The sequence of Aghdam's activities emerged Wednesday as police continued gathering information about the attacker and her motives.
Agents with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives searched two Southern California homes where Aghdam had lived. Spokeswoman Ginger Colbrun would not confirm the locations but reporters saw agents entering homes in the communities of Menifee, southeast of Los Angeles, and 4S Ranch, north of San Diego.
Aghdam was a "really good person" and had no history of mental illness, said a woman named Leila who identified herself as an aunt as she entered the family home in Menifee. She did not give her last name.
The shooter's family later distributed a statement outside the home saying it was "in absolute shock and can't make sense of what has happened."
"Although no words can describe our deep pain for this tragedy, our family would like to express their utmost regret, sorrow for what has happened to innocent victims," the statement said.
Investigators do not believe Aghdam, who was in her late 30s, targeted anyone in particular, and there is no reason to believe she illegally obtained the semi-automatic 9mm pistol used in the shooting, San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini said.
Aghdam walked onto the YouTube property through a parking garage and it's not clear whether she encountered any security.
Two women wounded in the shooting were released Wednesday from a San Francisco hospital. The third victim, a 36-year-old man, was upgraded from critical to serious condition.
The day before the attack, the shooter's father, Ismail Aghdam, said he warned police that his daughter was upset with how YouTube handled her videos and might be planning to go to its offices.
Nasim Aghdam "hated" YouTube and was angry that the company stopped paying her for videos she posted, Ismail Aghdam told the Bay Area News Group. Her video posts included segments about veganism, animal cruelty and exercise, along with glamor shots of herself.
Police in Mountain View said they spoke to Ismail Aghdam twice after contacting the family to report finding his daughter and that he never told them she could become violent or pose a threat to YouTube employees.
When officers found Nasim Aghdam, she was in her car near a strip mall in Mountain View, about 25 miles from YouTube and home to the company's owner, Silicon Valley giant Google. She told Mountain View police who spoke to her around 2 a.m. Tuesday that she had come to the area to stay with relatives and was looking for a job, police said.
They let her go, saying there was no indication she needed to be detained.
Later in the day, she went to a gun range not far from the YouTube headquarters. Police visited the range Wednesday.
Nasim Aghdam used the name "Nasime Sabz" online, a law enforcement official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to discuss the case.
A website in that name decried YouTube's policies and said the company was trying to "suppress" content creators.
"Youtube filtered my channels to keep them from getting views!" one of the messages on the site said. "There is no equal growth opportunity on YOUTUBE or any other video sharing site, your channel will grow if they want to!!!!!"
People who post on YouTube can receive money from advertisements that accompany their videos, but the company "de-monetizes" some channels for reasons including inappropriate material or having fewer than 1,000 subscribers.
YouTube had no immediate comment about any actions related to Nasim Aghdam's videos, spokesman Chris Dale said.
The company said in a statement it has encouraged employees to take time off or work from home and will increase security at its headquarters and offices around the world.
___
Thanawala reported from San Francisco. Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, Ryan Nakashima in San Bruno, Calif., Janie Har in San Francisco and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report.
The widow of the gunman who slaughtered 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was acquitted Friday of helping to plot the attack and lying to the FBI afterward — a rare and stinging defeat for the U.S. government in a terrorism case.
Noor Salman, 31, sobbed upon hearing the jury's verdict of not guilty of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization, charges that could have brought a life sentence. Her family gasped each time the words "not guilty" were pronounced.
On the other side of the Orlando courtroom, the families of the victims of the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting sat stone-faced and silent.
Within hours, Salman was released from jail after 14 months and got into a waiting car without answering questions.
"Noor is so grateful. Her belief in the process was shown. She wants to get back to her son," her attorney Linda Moreno said. Family spokeswoman Susan Clary said Salman's family "always thought that Noor was the first victim" of her husband, Omar Mateen.
The verdict reverberated through Orlando and legal circles beyond.
"The government rarely, rarely loses these kinds of cases. It's got every single factor on its side," said David Oscar Markus, a Miami attorney who routinely tries federal cases. "It's a pretty impressive win for the defense and a devastating loss for the government."
Mateen, the American-born son of Afghan immigrants, was killed by police after opening fire in the name of the Islamic State group.
Relying heavily on an alleged confession from Salman, federal prosecutors charged that she and Mateen had scouted out potential targets together — including Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex — and that she gave him the "green light to commit terrorism."
But the defense portrayed her as an easily manipulated woman with a low IQ and argued that she signed a false confession because she was tired after a long interrogation and feared losing her young son.
In a blow to the government's case, the FBI itself found that receipts and cellphone signals showed the couple were nowhere near the Pulse on the day Salman said they were.
Also, prosecutors introduced no online posts, texts or any other evidence that Salman supported ISIS, and were hard-pressed to counter the defense's portrayal of her as a simple, sweet mother who loves her 5-year-old son, romance novels and the cartoon character Hello Kitty.
After the verdict, prosecutors said they were disappointed and took no questions.
The jurors said little as they left court.
"Noor Salman should never have been on trial," said Ahmed Bedier, a civil rights advocate and the president of United Voices of America. "Let this verdict serve as a message to law enforcement and prosecutors who railroad and persecute innocent people on little evidence, the people of this great nation will not allow it."
Some veteran attorneys said the government made a mistake in not recording the alleged confession. The jury was given only a written statement.
"The FBI needs to start recording their statements. It's a terrible practice. But it's the FBI's policy not to record," Markus said. "Even local police agencies now record statements and are required to do so. Jurors in today's age want to hear the recording, they want to see the evidence."
Miami defense attorney David Weinstein said: "As much as we don't want to admit it, this is the age of the cellphone. It's ingrained in the minds of jurors, if it's not recorded, it didn't happen."
Christine Leinonen, an attorney and former state trooper whose only son was killed in the nightclub massacre, told The Orlando Sentinel she was disappointed but not shocked by the verdict. She said Salman's alleged confession was "clearly coerced" and added: "Cops screw up their own cases."
Prosecutors had also accused Salman of falsely claiming that her husband didn't use the internet in their home, that he had deactivated his Facebook account years earlier, that he had one gun when he had three, and that he wasn't radicalized.
But the defense said that Salman, who was born in California to Palestinian parents, was abused and cheated on by her husband and that he concealed much of his life from her. Her attorneys argued there was no way she knew her husband would attack the nightclub because even he didn't know it until moments before.
According to prosecutors, Mateen intended to attack Disney World's shopping and entertainment complex by hiding a gun in a stroller but became spooked by police and chose a new target.
___
Lush reported from St. Petersburg, Florida.
___
This story has been corrected to show that Bedier is with United Voices of America.
Quetta, Pakistan —  The militant group Islamic State on Tuesday claimed responsibility for killing four members of a Christian family in southwestern Pakistan.
A statement issued by the group claimed that militants belonging to ISIS fired on the group of Christians as they were traveling in the city of Quetta, killing four on Monday.
Islamic State has affiliates in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, many drawn from existing Islamist militant groups, who support their vehement sectarian views against Shi'ite Muslims and non-Muslims.
The family was traveling in a rickshaw when armed men on a motorcycle intercepted them and opened fire in Quetta city, the capital of Baluchistan province.
The family had come to visit relatives in Quetta's Shahzaman road area, where a large number of the city's Christian community lives.
"It appears to have been a targeted attack," provincial police official Moazzam Jah Ansari told Reuters. "It was an act of terrorism."
The attack came a day after Pakistan's Christian community celebrated Easter on Sunday. Around 2 percent of Pakistan's population of 208 million are Christians.
Minority religious festivals are a security concern in the majority Sunni Muslim country where there have been a number of high casualty attacks on Christians and Shi'ite Muslims.
Baluchistan, a region bordering Iran as well as Afghanistan, is plagued by violence by Sunni Islamist groups linked to the Taliban, al Qaeda and Islamic State.
It also has an indigenous ethnic Baloch insurgency fighting against central government.
In December, a week before Christmas, two suicide bombers stormed a packed Christian church in southwestern Pakistan, killing at least 10 people and wounding up to 56, in an attack claimed by Islamic State.
(Reporting by Syed Raza Hassan; Editing by Michael Perry)
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia —  The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen says Houthi rebels have attacked a Saudi oil tanker, causing "minor damage."
The coalition statement says the attack occurred in international waters on Tuesday near the Red Sea port of Hodeida. It did not provide further details on the weapon used or the extent of the damage.
The coalition says a naval ship belonging to a member country rapidly intervened, without giving further details.
Spokesman Col. Turki al-Malki says a coalition naval ship accompanied the oil tanker until it completed its navigation north. Al-Malki described it as a "terrorist attack" that threatens ships entering the vital Bab al-Mandeb strait, used for oil shipments from the Gulf to Europe.
DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistani —  Pakistani police say militants that struck a police convoy with a bomb attack have killed three officers in the country's northwest.
Police official Mohammad Khan says Friday's attack was aimed at the newly appointed district police chief, Zahid Ullah, who escaped unhurt.
Mohammad Khurasani, a spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack and warned of more in the future.
Dera Ismail Khan is a central town in the country's northeast and a gateway to the North and South Waziristan tribal regions, which have were a base for local Taliban until recently when the army in series of operations killed or captured militants.
Violence, however, has persisted in the town.
WASHINGTON —  The United States called on Houthis on Wednesday to stop escalating the conflict in Yemen and demonstrate a commitment to dialogue, a day after an attack on a Saudi oil tanker by the Iran-allied group.
"The United States is very concerned about the Houthis' latest attempt to escalate the war in Yemen, this time by attacking a commercial vessel while it transited one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, the Bab al-Mandab, in international waters," the White House said in a statement.
(Reporting by Doina Chiacu)
BERLIN —  The German government still agrees with Britain that Russia is probably responsible for the poisoning of a former double agent  after the head of Britain's military research center said he could not say whether the nerve agent had been made in Russia.
"Nothing has changed," said government spokeswoman Ulrike Demmer, adding: "We share Britain's view that there is a high likelihood that Russia is behind it".
Western countries, including Germany, have taken joint action in expelling Russian diplomats as a result of the nerve agent attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in southern England last month. Moscow has retaliated with expulsions of its own.
(Reporting by Madeline Chambers and Michelle Martin)
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria —  Nigeria's Boko Haram Islamic extremists attacked two villages on the outskirts of the northeastern city of Maiduguri late Sunday, killing at least 15 people, the military said Monday.
The Boko Haram militants tried to enter the center of Maidugiri, the provincial capital of Borno state, but army soldiers repelled them, gunning down six armed insurgents and seven suicide bombers, said army spokesman Col. Onyema Nwachukwu. At least 83 people were injured and are receiving medical attention, he said.
Residents of Maiduguri retreated to their homes Sunday night during hours-long battle marked by thunderous explosions and gunfire heard until the early hours of Monday.
Troops prevented the insurgents from entering the center of Maiduguri, but they detonated their bombs in the outlying villages of Bille Shuwa and Alikaranti, with one soldier among the 15 casualties, said Nwachukwu.
"Troops are still on the trail of the insurgents," he said. "It is clear that the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists are hell bent on remaining relevant by attacking soft and vulnerable targets and therefore we call for collective vigilance by all security stakeholders and members of the public."
Nwachukwu warned residents to remain watchful and report any suspicious people or activity to security officials. A 14-year-old Boko Haram insurgent surrendered to soldiers after escaping an extremist enclave on the Lake Chad islands, he said.
Survivors of the attack told The Associated Press that most of those killed by the suicide bombs were youths at a viewing center and were targeted when they fled after hearing gunfire between the soldiers and the Boko Haram fighters.
"The gunmen came with the suicide bombers, and as they were engaged by soldiers, some of them sneaked into the confused, fleeing crowd and detonated themselves killing about 15 people and over 80 others," said Momodu Bukar, a member of a civilian defense force.
Boko Haram, which was formed in Maiduguri, has killed more than 20,000 people in its nine-year insurgency to establish Shariah law in Nigeria.
CAIRO —  Libyan authorities say six people were killed when a suicide car bomber struck a checkpoint in eastern Libya, in an attack claimed by the local affiliate of the Islamic State group.
The bomber targeted the eastern gates of Ajdabiya, said Fawzy al-Mansouri, head of the city operations room. He added that members of one family were among the dead and that five soldiers were wounded. IS claimed responsibility on Friday on its Aamaq news agency.
The attack comes less than a week after a U.S. airstrike killed two al-Qaida militants, including a top recruiter, Musa Abu Dawud, in southern Libya.
Islamic extremists expanded their reach across Libya after country was plunged into chaos following the 2011 uprising that ousted and killed longtime ruler Moammar Gadhafi.
DUBAI/GENEVA —  Yemen's Houthi group hit a Saudi oil tanker off the main port city of Hodeidah on Tuesday, the Saudi-led coalition said, in an attack that could complicate a new United Nations push to end a war that has killed more than 10,000 people.
The Iranian-aligned Houthis said they had targeted a coalition warship in response to an air strike on Hodeidah on Monday that killed at least a dozen civilians, including seven children.
Tensions have been rising in recent days after the Houthis, who control most of northern Yemen, launched a series of missile strikes on Saudi Arabia, including the capital Riyadh, in recent days.
In a statement carried by Saudi media, the coalition said the oil tanker was in international waters when it came under "Houthi-Iranian attack" at around 1330 local time (1030 GMT).
A coalition warship conducted a "swift intervention" foiling the attack, it said, without identifying the type of weapon used in the assault. "As a result of that attack, the tanker was subjected to a slight but ineffective hit and it resumed its naval course northwards, escorted by a coalition warship," the statement said.
A European Union naval force that operates in the region confirmed the ship was underway, adding that the crew were safe and unharmed.
The media department of the Houthi-run Yemeni military said naval forces had "targeted a battleship belonging to the coalition in response to the bombardment of displaced people in Hodeidah". It gave no further details.
The department's text message was referring to an air strike by the Saudi-led coalition on Monday in Houthi-controlled Hodeidah that destroyed a house and killed 12 civilians from the same family, including seven children.
A coalition spokesman said the alliance takes the report very seriously, promising a full investigation.
Last week, Saudi air defences intercepted a flurry of missiles, and falling debris caused the first death in the capital Riyadh.
Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of supplying missiles to the Houthis, who have taken over the Yemeni capital Sanaa and other parts of the country. Tehran and the Houthis deny the charge.
CALL FOR ENDING WAR
Earlier on Tuesday, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the warring sides in Yemen to reach a political settlement to end a conflict now in its fourth year that has left 22 million people in urgent need of aid.
Speaking in Geneva on the sidelines of a U.N. pledging conference for Yemen, Guterres said his Special Envoy Martin Griffiths will head to the United Arab Emirates, Oman and the Yemeni government-held city of Aden in the drive for peace, Guterres told reporters.
Griffiths has already held talks with Houthi authorities as well as internationally-recognised Yemeni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi and Saudi officials in Riyadh.
Guterres said he saw "positive perspectives" for preparing a plan of action "to lead to an effective inter-Yemeni dialogue able to achieve a political solution, with of course the involvement of all those that are relevant in this conflict".
"I am optimistic about that possibility," the United Nations chief added.
He announced that more than $2 billion has been pledged towards a U.N. humanitarian appeal of $3 billion for Yemen this year. It includes $930 million from Saudi Arabia and the UAE which lead the coalition air strikes.
Yemeni Foreign Minister Abdel-Malek al-Mekhlafi called for a return to the negotiating table to end the war in the Arabian peninsula's poorest country and said his government was working to open blockaded ports and airports to aid.
(Reporting by Sami Aboudi; Additional reporting by Stephanie Nebehay and Jonathan Saul; Editing by Catherine Evans and David Stamp)
UNITED NATIONS —  Russia has requested the United Nations Security Council meet on Thursday to discuss British accusations that Moscow used a nerve agent to attack a former Russian spy in England last month, Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said on Wednesday.
Nebenzia said the meeting would be convened on the basis of a March 13 letter sent to the U.N. Security Council by British Prime Minister Theresa May, which said Moscow was "highly likely" responsible for the attack.
The 15-member council first met on March 14, at the request of Britain, to discuss the attack in Britain's Salisbury.
(Reporting by Michelle Nichols)
SALISBURY, England —  Normality is slowly returning to Salisbury after the poisoning of a former Russian double-agent with nerve agent a month ago thrust this elegant cathedral city into the center of an international maelstrom.
But while the city center is much busier than it was in the days after Sergei Skripal and his daughter were found slumped on a bench outside a shopping center, locals said that the effects of the incident were still being felt.
"It will take a while and I think in the end we will get there and everything hopefully will get back to normal," said Julia Evans, 71, who works in a local fish shop, adding sales initially dropped hugely after the attack but had slowly recovered.
The area around the bench – which has since been removed by forensic investigators – remains roped off, as well as a Zizzi pizza restaurant and the Mill pub which were visited by the Skripals before they were found unconscious.
On the Tuesday after the Easter weekend, the streets were full of locals and visitors on tours of the medieval city, making the most of market day and free parking in the center.
Britain's interior ministry has said the risk to the public is small. But there is still a heavy police presence, and in the days afterwards, visitors to the restaurant and the pub were advised to clean their possessions with baby wipes and detergent.
    For a city that relies heavily on tourism, that created concern that fears of contamination and the high police presence meant visitors would be put off.
And on Wednesday, a Reuters photographer saw police in black, protective suits working in the cordoned-off areas around the Mill pub.
"To me it's not going on as normal. There's a big chunk of Salisbury totally cut off both in terms of commerce and in terms of just walking around," said Alex Garbut, 69, who lives nearby.
Market traders in the Maltings shopping center said business had been heavily affected.
The government has offered a compensation fund of 1 million pounds ($1.4 million) to help businesses recover, and the message from a local lawmaker was that Salisbury remained open for business.
"Obviously we've got sites which make it very visually difficult sometimes, but ... only a small number of businesses are shut," said Salisbury's Member of Parliament John Glen. "There's a lot of goodwill across the country towards Salisbury."
The attack has made Salisbury the epicenter of an international furor. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is examining samples to assess Britain's claim that a nerve agent from the Novichok family was used in the attack and that Russia carried it out. Russia denies involvement and has said Britain itself could have been behind the attack.
"It's certainly put a very quiet place on the map, hasn't it?" William Phillips, 72, a retired Salisbury resident, said. "Not much happens in Salisbury really." 
(Writing by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)
RIYADH/DUBAI —  An attack on a Saudi tanker by Yemen's Houthis will not hit oil supplies, Saudi Arabia's energy minister said on Wednesday, after the Iran-allied group said it had targeted a warship in response to an air strike that killed civilians.
The Western-backed, Saudi-led coalition which includes other Sunni Muslim states says the Houthis attacked the oil tanker off Yemen's main port of Hodeidah on Tuesday.
The Houthis, however, say they targeted a coalition warship in response to an air strike on Hodeidah on Monday that killed at least a dozen civilians, including seven children.
"The terrorist attack ... will not affect economic activity or stall oil supplies," Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Twitter.
Saudi oil industry sources told Reuters that oil operations and shipments were proceeding as normal and that security around facilities inside the kingdom had not been raised further.
"It was a minor attack. There was no impact, but the question is will it continue?" one of the sources said.
The European Union's naval force said the oil tanker was the vessel Abqaiq. Shipping data showed it was Saudi-flagged, carrying more than 2 million barrels of crude oil and destined for Ain Sukhna in Egypt.
The tanker, whose owner Saudi shipping group Bahri did not immediately respond to a request for comment, was in international waters when it came under attack at around 1330 local time (1030 GMT), the coalition has said.
Spokesman Colonel Turki al-Malki told reporters on Wednesday the coalition had responded to the attack by bombing a facility for making and storing bomb-laden boats and coastal defense missiles.
He said a weekend fire at Hodeidah port was sparked by another missile that misfired when the Houthis tried to launch it at a coalition ship. The blaze, which destroyed aid supplies, was blamed by port workers on an electrical short circuit.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) intervened against the Houthis in Yemen's war in 2015 to restore the internationally recognized government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi.
The Houthis, who control most of northern Yemen, have launched missiles at Saudi Arabia, including the capital Riyadh, in the past few days. Saudi authorities said they had intercepted the missiles, although debris had killed one person.
In April 2017, Saudi forces said they had foiled an attempt to blow up an Aramco fuel terminal in southern Saudi Arabia using a high-speed boat laden with explosives, alleging the Houthis were behind the attempt.
The Saudi-led alliance has conducted thousands of air strikes targeting the Houthis, often hitting civilian areas, although it denies doing so intentionally.
Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of supplying missiles to the Houthis, who have taken over the capital Sanaa and other parts of Yemen. Tehran and the Houthis deny the allegation.
(Additional reporting by Jonathan Saul in London, writing by Maha El Dahan; Editing by Catherine Evans)
ATLANTA —  Atlanta's top officials holed up in their offices on Saturday as they worked to restore critical systems knocked out by a nine-day-old cyber attack that plunged the Southeastern U.S. metropolis into technological chaos and forced some city workers to revert to paper.
On an Easter and Passover holiday weekend, city officials labored in preparation for the workweek to come.
Police and other public servants have spent the past week trying to piece together their digital work lives, recreating audit spreadsheets and conducting business on mobile phones in response to one of the most devastating "ransomware" virus attacks to hit an American city.
Three city council staffers have been sharing a single clunky personal laptop brought in after cyber extortionists attacked Atlanta's computer network with a virus that scrambled data and still prevents access to critical systems.
"It’s extraordinarily frustrating," said Councilman Howard Shook, whose office lost 16 years of digital records.
One compromised city computer seen by Reuters showed multiple corrupted documents with "weapologize" and "imsorry" added to file names.
Ransomware attacks have surged in recent years as cyber extortionists moved from attacking individual computers to large organizations, including businesses, healthcare organizations and government agencies. Previous high-profile attacks have shut down factories, prompted hospitals to turn away patients and forced local emergency dispatch systems to move to manual operations.
Ransomware typically corrupts data and does not steal it. The city of Atlanta has said it does not believe private residents' information is in the hands of hackers, but they do not know for sure.
City officials have declined to discuss the extent of damage beyond disclosed outages that have shut down some services at municipal offices, including courts and the water department.
Nearly 6 million people live in the Atlanta metropolitan area. The Georgia city itself is home to more than 450,000 people, according to the latest data from the U.S. Census Bureau.
City officials told Reuters that police files and financial documents were rendered inaccessible by unknown hackers who demanded $51,000 worth of bitcoin to provide digital keys to unlock scrambled files.
“Everything on my hard drive is gone,” City Auditor Amanda Noble said in her office housed in Atlanta City Hall’s ornate tower.
City officials have not disclosed the extent to which servers for backing up information on PCs were corrupted or what kind of information they think is unrecoverable without paying the ransom.
Noble discovered the disarray on March 22 when she turned on her computer to discover that files could not be opened after being encrypted by a powerful computer virus known as SamSam that renamed them with gibberish.
“I said, 'This is wrong,'" she recalled.
City officials then quickly entered her office and told her to shut down the computer before warning the rest of the building.
Noble is working on a personal laptop and using her smartphone to search for details of current projects mentioned in emails stored on that device.
Not all computers were compromised. Ten of 18 machines in the auditing office were not affected, Noble said.
OLD-SCHOOL ANALOG
Atlanta police returned to taking written case notes and have lost access to some investigative databases, department spokesman Carlos Campos told Reuters. He declined to discuss the contents of the affected files.
"Our data management teams are working diligently to restore normal operations and functionalities to these systems and hope to be back online in the very near future," he said. By the weekend, he added, officers were returning to digital police reports.
Meanwhile, some city employees complained they have been left in the dark, unsure when it is safe to turn on their computers.
“We don't know anything,” said one frustrated employee as she left for a lunch break on Friday.
FEEBLE
Like City Hall, whose 1930 neo-Gothic structure is attached to a massive modern wing, the city’s computer system is a combination of old and new. 
“One of the reasons why municipalities are vulnerable is we just have so many different systems,” Noble said. 
The city published results from a recent cyber-security audit in January, and had started implementing its recommendations before the ransomware virus hit. The audit called for better record-keeping and hiring more technology workers.
Councilman Shook said he is worried about how much the recovery will cost the city, but that he supports funding a cyber-security overhaul to counter future attacks.
For now his staff are temporarily sharing one aging laptop.
“Things are very slow," he said. "It was a very surreal experience to be shut down like that."
Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, who took office in January, has declined to say if the city paid the ransom ahead of a March 28 deadline mentioned in an extortion note whose image was released by a local television station.
Shook, who chairs the city council's finance subcommittee, said he did not know whether the city is negotiating with the hackers, but that it appears no ransom has been paid to date.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which is helping Atlanta respond, typically discourages ransomware victims from paying up.
FBI officials could not immediately be reached for comment. A Department of Homeland Security spokesman confirmed the agency is helping Atlanta respond to the attack, but declined to comment further.
Hackers typically walk away when ransoms are not paid, said Mark Weatherford, a former senior DHS cyber official.
Weatherford, who previously served as California's chief information security officer, said the situation might have been resolved with little pain if the city had quickly made that payment.
"The longer it goes, the worse it gets," he said. “This could turn out to be really bad if they never get their data back."
(Reporting by Laila Kearney; additional reporting by Jim Finkle; editing by Daniel Bases and Jonathan Oatis)
CARACAS —  Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said on Tuesday that 17 people had been detained for an attack on a rival presidential candidate's campaign, but the leftist leader rejected accusations that pro-government thugs were to blame for the unrest ahead of the May vote.
The security boss of opposition candidate Henri Falcon sustained a "severe" injury to the head during an outing in the rough Caracas neighborhood of Catia on Monday. Falcon accused government supporters of attacking Teodoro Campos, who is also a lawmaker, with a brass knuckle. After being whisked to hospital, Campos was in stable condition, according to Falcon.
Maduro, whom Falcon has accused of turning to violence to compensate for his deep unpopularity in the midst of a brutal economic crisis, condemned the attack.
"I can say that there are 17 people arrested and that all who dare attack presidential candidate Henri Falcon's campaign verbally or physically will be punished with jail," Maduro said during a speech on state television. He did not provide any details on the arrests.
Maduro rebuffed claims that militant grassroot groups known as "colectivos" were behind the attack.
"If someone says they are 'chavista' or a member of a 'colectivo' and does what that group did yesterday in Catia, in Caracas, then they're not 'chavista.' It could be an infiltrator on the right-wing's payroll," said Maduro, who frequently accuses his opponents of seeking to sabotage his presidency by allegedly hoarding goods, tampering with the electricity generation and fueling violence.
Critics say Maduro has wrecked the oil-rich nation's economy with inefficient and corrupt state meddling but refuses to take responsibility for Venezuela's meltdown.
Falcon is hoping to beat Maduro, a former bus driver and union leader, in a May 20 election that the rest of the opposition is boycotting because it says the electoral process is stacked against it.
Many opposition members distrust Falcon, once a member of the ruling socialists, and say he is a government puppet designed to legitimize an unfair election. Falcon, however, says Maduro's opponents must unite to try to defeat Maduro at the ballot box and bring about peaceful change in Venezuela.
(Reporting by Vivian Sequera; Writing by Alexandra Ulmer; Editing by Leslie Adler)
ATLANTA —  Travelers at the world's busiest airport in Atlanta can once again use free Wi-Fi to go online after a cyberattack that hit the city last month.
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport sent a tweet Monday saying that its free Wi-Fi is up and running. The message adds: "To all — thank you for your patience."
The system has been down since a ransomware cyberattack hit the city's computer network on March 22.
Officials say the attack didn't affect safety at the airport, but the Wi-Fi and flight information systems were taken down as a precaution. They say the attack included the encryption of some city data and caused outages for numerous city computer systems.
City officials haven't said whether they paid the $51,000 ransom demanded by hackers.
TBILISI —  Georgia has ordered a Russian diplomat to leave the country within a week, joining governments in the United States and across Europe in censuring Russia over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.
Georgia and Russia severed diplomatic ties after a brief war in August 2008 over the breakaway South Ossetia region, but Russian diplomats have a presence there, operating out of a Russian interests section in the Swiss embassy.
"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemns the use of chemical weapons on the territory of the United Kingdom that caused grave human suffering to three individuals and posed serious threat to the life and health of others," the ministry said in a statement late on Thursday.
Russia has denied any involvement in the poisoning of former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia. A British policeman who attended the scene of the poisoning, in the English city of Salisbury, was hospitalized. He has since been discharged.
(Reporting by Margarita Antidze; Editing by Edmund Blair)
PHNOM PENH —  Cambodian opposition members lit candles and held prayers in Phnom Penh on Friday to mark the 21st anniversary of a deadly grenade attack - a rare public gathering since a government crackdown started last year.
The opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) was banned in November after the arrest of its leader Kem Sokha on treason charges, which he says are political motivated ahead of a national elections in July.
Opponents of Prime Minister Hun Sen accuse him of arresting Kem Sokha and cracking down on independent media and other critics in the face of what could have been his toughest electoral challenge in more than 30 years in power.
Hun Sen has ruled Cambodia for 33 years and is now widely expected to win the election on July 29. Western countries have said the election cannot be fair without an opposition.
Around 40 opposition members, joined by Buddhist monks, gathered at a memorial in the capital to mark an attack on opposition supporters that killed at least 16 people and left hundreds wounded in 1997.
Last year's anniversary ceremony drew hundreds of people.
This year's ceremony was held under the auspices of the Candlelight Party, linked to former opposition leader Sam Rainsy, who was himself wounded in the 1997 attack and who fled Cambodia in 2015 to escape a defamation conviction.
(Reporting by Prak Chan Thul; Editing by Michael Perry)
MANILA —  The Philippine central bank has sounded an alert to local financial institutions following a cyber attack at the Malaysian central bank, in which hackers sought to steal money using fraudulent wire transfers, its governor said on Saturday.
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has said no funds were lost in the incident, which it identified on Tuesday, and involved falsified wire-transfer requests over the SWIFT bank messaging network, the latest in a series of electronic heists at financial institutions around the world.
"We issued a general alert reminder as soon as we got BNM advisory to be extra careful over the long holiday. Although banks already do that as SOP (standard operating procedure)," Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Nestor Espenilla said in a phone message.
"Information sharing is part of enhanced defensive protocols against cyber-crime," Espenilla said.
The alert was issued on Wednesday, and there had been no specific threat, officials said.
Bank Negara did not say who was behind the hack or how they accessed its SWIFT servers. The central bank, which supervises 45 commercial banks in Malaysia, said on Thursday there was no disruption to other payment and settlement systems the central bank operates because of the cyber attack.
In February 2016, the Philippine financial system was thrown into the global spotlight after $81 million that was stolen from Bangladesh central bank was channeled into several accounts at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp (RCBC), before disappearing into the local casino industry.
The Bangladesh heist led financial institutions around the globe to bolster security. There is no word on who was responsible and Dhaka has been able to retrieve only about $15 million.
The Philippine central bank fined RCBC a record one billion pesos ($20 million) in 2016 for its failure to prevent the movement of the stolen money through it. RCBC has blamed rogue employees for the incident.
(Reporting by Karen Lema; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
SYDNEY —  Australia's rugby sevens captain James Stannard has been hospitalised after being involved in a 'one-punch' attack in Sydney early on Friday.
New South Wales Police said in a statement that a 22-year-old man had been charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm after a 35-year-old man had been punched in an alleged "unprovoked" attack.
"The victim was taken to St Vincents Hospital where he is understood to be in a stable condition with head injuries," the police added in their statement.
Rugby Australia (RA) later identified Stannard as the victim of the attack.
"Rugby Australia is aware of an incident which has resulted in the hospitalisation of Australian men's sevens player James Stannard in Sydney overnight," RA said.
"Rugby Australia is working with NSW Police to investigate the matter and will provide a further update later today."
Stannard replaced the injured Lewis Holland as captain for the Commonwealth Games tournament on the Gold Coast.
The men's tournament will be held on the final two days of the April 4-15 Games, with Australia drawn in Pool B with Samoa, Jamaica and England.
(Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
JOHANNESBURG —  The Modikwa platinum mine in South Africa has halted production after six workers en route to the operation were burnt to death in a petrol bomb attack on a bus, a spokeswoman for African Rainbow Minerals (ARM) said on Tuesday.
The mine in north east South Africa is operated by ARM and Anglo American Platinum.
(Reporting by Ed Stoddard, editing by Louise Heavens)
JOHANNESBURG —  Six South African miners were burnt to death when the bus taking them to work was set alight by a petrol bomb thrown by unknown attackers, police and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said on Tuesday.
The platinum belt in the world's top producer of the precious metal has been a flashpoint of violence rooted in community grievances over jobs and revenue flows and conflict between rival unions.
"Six workers were burned beyond recognition and the other workers had to escape through windows. We also do not know what is the motive of the attack," Phillip Mankge, the NUM's North East Regional Secretary, said in a statement.
The attack occured Monday night near the town of Burgersfort in northern Limpopo province while the workers were being driven to the Modikwa platinum mine, operated by African Rainbow Minerals (ARM) and Anglo American Platinum.
ARM spokeswoman Jongisa Magagula said production at the mine, which produces around 300,000 ounces of platinum group metals annually, had halted and staff would hold a mass meeting later in the day.
The companies said in a joint statement that 44 workers were also receiving medical attention in the wake of the attack.
The South African Police Service said that it was offering a 500,000 rand ($42,000) reward for information leading to arrests or possible convictions of those responsible.
When police arrived on the scene "the bus had already burned to ashes with six victims inside," police said in a statement. A high level team of investigators had been assigned to the case.
NUM said that there have been "a number of incidences in Burgersfort and surrounding areas recently that led to road closures and trucks burned."
A turf war between NUM and arch rival the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) has also triggered violence that has killed dozens of workers, including 34 wildcat miners shot dead by police in 2012 outside the Marikana mine operated by platinum producer Lonmin.
(Editing Raissa Kasolowsky and Louise Heavens)
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey —  Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants staged an attack near a military base in southeast Turkey's Siirt province, killing six Turkish security force members and wounding seven, security sources said on Friday.
They said the attack occurred in the area of a military base in the Eruh district of Siirt and that those killed were from a village guard militia which supports the Turkish military. The sources initially said five soldiers were killed.
It was not clear when the attack occurred. State-run Anadolu news agency said four soldiers and three village guards were also wounded in the attack, which occurred in an area where road construction work was being carried out.
The PKK is designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the United States and the European Union. Conflict in mainly Kurdish southeast Turkey generally escalates as spring arrives in the mountainous region.
More than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict between the Turkish state and the PKK, which launched a separatist insurgency in 1984. The conflict intensified after a ceasefire collapsed in 2015.
Earlier this month, Turkey captured the northern Syrian town of Afrin after a two-month offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia, which Ankara views as an extension of the PKK.
(Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Dominic Evans)
WASHINGTON —  The Supreme Court is rejecting an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more than a decade ago.
The justices are not commenting Monday in ending a lawsuit against the PLO and Palestinian Authority in connection with attacks in Israel in 2002 and 2004 that killed 33 people. A lower court tossed out a $654 million verdict against the Palestinians.
The Trump administration sided with the Palestinians in calling on the high court to leave the lower court ruling in place. The federal appeals court in New York said U.S. courts can't consider lawsuits against foreign-based groups over random attacks that were not aimed at the United States.
The victims sued under the Anti-Terrorism Act, passed to open U.S. courts to American victims of international terrorism.
RIYADH —  Saudi Aramco said on Thursday its plants and facilities in the southwestern province of Jizan were operating "normally and safely" after Yemen's armed Houthi movement said it had targeted storage tanks there with a missile.
The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen said on Wednesday that Saudi Arabia's air defense had intercepted the missile with no reported damage or casualties.
(Reporting by Stephen Kalin; Editing by James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - Shares of Amazon.com Inc fell 6 percent on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump again attacked the online retailer over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.
"Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon," Trump tweeted.
"They lose a fortune, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field!"
Shares of the company were down 5.9 percent at $1,362.48, wiping out nearly $45 billion from its market value.
Trump has been vocal about his opposition to Amazon's use of the postal service and Monday's tweet adds to investor worries that the company could see more regulation.
Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for a comment.
On Saturday, Trump tweeted that if the post office "increased its parcel rates, Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 billion."
The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) in November reported a decline in annual revenue, hurt by a drop in first-class and marketing mail, offset partly by an increase in package delivery.
The postal service has also been posting losses mainly because of payments, more than $5 billion a year as mandated by Congress to prefund the service's future retirees' healthcare.
The passage of postal reform legislation could alleviate USPS’s pension obligations, give it more pricing power and allow the agency to be more competitive, analysts said.
"We believe the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) has gained share from Amazon which is helping the USPS stay afloat," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.
Details of Amazon's payments to the USPS are not publicly known, but some Wall Street analysts have estimated it pays the postal service roughly half what it would to United Parcel Service Inc or FedEx Corp to deliver a package.
"President Trump's comments are consistent with industry sources we have spoken to in the shipping industry, who often label Amazon's deal with the USPS as a sweetheart deal," DA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note.
"An argument, however, could be made that the USPS was losing billions before it expanded its service offerings for Amazon and would, still, likely lose billions if Amazon discontinued its use of the USPS tomorrow," Forte said.
Trump last Thursday accused Amazon of not paying enough tax, making the postal system lose money and putting small retailers out of business.
(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur, Bernard Orr)
TAIPEI, Taiwan —  People who knew the 18-year-old Taiwanese exchange student charged in the U.S. with threatening to shoot up his school say he liked guns and flamethrowers and had dreams of a police career.
An Tso Sun, who has been jailed in the state of Pennsylvania, was "a child who really cares about things," said Cheng Wei-ting, a tutor who home-schooled Sun in Taiwan's capital, Taipei.
"He was an extremely simple and kind student, yet he would often have unusual ideas," Cheng said.
Sun idealized the famed Taiwanese-American forensics scientist Lee Chang-yu and wanted eventually to study criminal psychology at an American university, his father's friend Tuo Zong-kang told reporters Thursday.
"He planned to study in the same fields as Lee, such as criminal psychology and forensics," Tuo said.
Sun's case comes as school shootings in the United States, including the deaths this month of 17 students and teachers in Parkland, Florida, have triggered some of the biggest youth protests in recent years and calls for stronger gun control measures.
Sun threatened to commit a shooting on May 1 at the Monsignor Bonner and Archbishop Prendergast High School he attended, according to police in the Pennsylvania town of Upper Darby.
They said he had live ammunition, a military-style ballistic vest, ammunition clip pouches and a high-powered crossbow in the home where he was staying in the town of Lansdowne, and had researched how to buy weapons.
Sun later said his threat was only a joke, but he was arrested Tuesday and has been charged with making terroristic threats.
Defense attorney Enrique Latoison said Wednesday his client "had no intention or plans" to commit a school shooting and many items found were what he wore to school for a Halloween costume contest. He said his client said he was "Just kidding."
Sun's latest Facebook post, from October, shows a person dressed in army fatigues, headphones and a brown ski mask carrying what could be an automatic firearm.
A February 2017 post that was also his Facebook background cover photo shows orange flames being fired beside a cement wall and stairwells leading into a ravine.
An earlier Facebook post — one of several flamethrower images on the site — is the image of a book titled "How to Make A Flamethrower: The Do It Yourself Manual." Sun made similar YouTube videos.
Sun once made a flamethrower as part of a school science fair, said Cheng, his former tutor. He thought "a day would come when zombies would appear," she added. He had also devised an escape route from his home, she said.
"What I recall most is that when these school shootings happened in America, he would tell me that if he had been on the scene he would definitely be the first to protect his classmates, so he needs to have a strong physique," said Cheng, who added that she once helped him research how to join a police SWAT team.
Sun's parents, actor and assistant film director Sun Peng and actress Di Ying, could not be reached for comment. But Di told Taiwanese broadcaster Sanlih E-Television that her son was a "military affairs fan" who was "making a joke" about his school in the U.S.
Tuo, his father's friend, told reporters he remembers Sun as "a very polite kid who had good grades, very disciplined and very kindhearted."
"He lives in a family full of warmth, and his parents are very kind to him," Tuo said. Regarding his arrest, he said, "I think it is a very, very big misunderstanding."
Before moving to Pennsylvania, the teenager completed two years of high school at the private Kang Chiao International School in New Taipei City, publicity head Wu Hao-ming said.
Prior to that, he achieved average grades at the private Wego Elementary School in Taipei, where he was popular among peers and teachers and showed no interest in guns, academic director Liu Jen-hao said.
"So this matter (in the United States) we find rather surprising," Liu said.
Sun was taken to Delaware County Prison in lieu of $100,000 bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for April 11.
___
This story has been corrected to show the tutor's name is Wei-ting, not Chu-yi.
SINGAPORE —  The brother and sister of Singapore's Prime Minister on Tuesday said that a ministerial panel's declarations about the future of a home lived in by their late father, the modern island state's founding leader Lee Kuan Yew, were inaccurate.
In a sign that a family feud over the property may be far from over, they criticised a report published by the committee on Monday which said a future government should make the final decision about the home's use. It laid out three options: preserving the house as a national monument, preserving part of it, or demolishing it.
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's younger brother, Lee Hsien Yang, who owns the property, and sister Lee Wei Ling, who still lives there, want the house to be eventually demolished in accordance with what they say were their father's wishes as stated in his will.
But the prime minister last year questioned whether his father really wanted the home at 38 Oxley Road, near Singapore's bustling Orchard Road shopping district, to be knocked down. He has said he has recused himself from government discussions on the matter.
"It is clear that our father was not endorsing alternatives to demolition," the siblings said in a joint statement on Facebook. "The Committee's statement does not accurately represent Lee Kuan Yew's wishes."
In a separate Facebook post, Lee Wei Ling said: "Papa was as direct as me. He made absolutely clear what he wanted done with the house. He and Mama had long decided they wanted it demolished after they were gone. It would require unbelievable lack of intelligence or determined denial to not understand what Pa & Ma so unambiguously wanted."
In a statement, the committee said it noted the siblings' response and would lodge them with the Cabinet Secretary, alongside previous remarks, so that they "can be referred to by a future government".
The feud over the home gripped Singapore for at least a month last year, and included accusations by the prime minister's siblings that he was prepared to use the organs of the state against them. The accusations were denied by the prime minister.
In a statement on Facebook on Monday, after the committee's report was issued, the prime minister said that the committee was correct to point out that there was no need for a decision now, as his sister was still living in the house.
"I hope that when the time comes to decide on what to do with the house, this report will help the Government of the day to make an informed decision that both respects my father's wishes and is in the public interest," he said.
(Reporting by Fathin Ungku; Writing by John Geddie; Editing by Martin Howell and Alex Richardson)
SAN BRUNO, Calif. —  A woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself was furious with the company because it had stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform, her father said late Tuesday.
Two law enforcement officials identified the suspect as Nasim Aghdam of Southern California. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.
YouTube had "stopped everything," and "she was angry," her father Ismail Aghdam said from his San Diego home in a telephone interview with the Bay Area News Group.
People who post on YouTube can receive money from advertisements that accompany their videos, but the company "de-monetizes" some channels for reasons including inappropriate material or having fewer than 1,000 subscribers.
Ismail Aghdam said he reported his daughter missing on Monday after she did not answer her phone for two days.
He said the family received a call from Mountain View police around 2 a.m. Tuesday saying they found Nasim sleeping in a car.
He said he warned them she might be headed to YouTube because she "hated" the company.
Mountain View Police spokeswoman Katie Nelson confirmed officers located a woman by the same name asleep in a vehicle asleep in a Mountain View parking lot Tuesday morning. Nelson said the woman declined to answer further questions but the police spokeswoman did not respond to a question about whether police were warned Aghdam might go to YouTube.
Authorities said earlier Tuesday that the shooting was being investigated as a domestic dispute.
Terrified employees huddled inside, calling 911, as officers and federal agents swarmed the company's suburban campus sandwiched between two interstate freeways in the San Francisco Bay Area city of San Bruno.
YouTube employee Dianna Arnspiger said she was on the building's second floor when she heard gunshots, ran to a window and saw the shooter on a patio outside.
She said the woman wore glasses and a scarf and was using a "big huge pistol."
"It was a woman and she was firing her gun. And I just said, 'Shooter,' and everybody started running," Arnspiger said.
She and others hid in a conference room for an hour while another employee repeatedly called 911 for updates.
"It was terrifying," she said.
A 36-year-old man was in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman was in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman was in fair condition, a spokesman for San Francisco General Hospital said.
Witnesses described terror before officers arrived and discovered a victim near a front door and then found the shooter several minutes later with what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini said.
He said two additional gunshot victims were found at an adjacent business minutes later. Barberini initially said there were four people who had been shot but later clarified that a fourth person had suffered an ankle injury.
Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said he was at his desk working on the second floor of one of the buildings when the fire alarm went off. He got on his skateboard and approached a courtyard, where he saw the shooter yelling, "'Come at me, or come get me.'"
He saw somebody lying nearby on his back with a red stain on his stomach that appeared to be from a bullet wound. Vorhies said he realized there was an active shooter when a police officer with an assault rifle came through a security door.
He said the public can access the courtyard where he saw the shooter during work hours.
Michael Finney, a 21-year-old supervisor at Carl's Jr. across from the campus, said he came out of the bathroom to see a woman in a booth bleeding from the calf. Two friends were trying to stop the bleeding, using the victim's sweatshirt as a tourniquet, but it wasn't helping, he told the San Jose Mercury News.
"Everyone was figuring out what to do," Finney said. "I was trying to stay calm and see what I could do. Everybody is shocked."
Google, which owns the world's biggest online video website, said the company's security team worked with authorities to evacuate buildings and was doing whatever it could support the victims and their families.
YouTube's headquarters has more than a thousand engineers and other employees in several buildings. Originally built in the late 1990s for the clothing retailer Gap, the campus south of San Francisco is known for its sloped green roof of native grasses.
Inside, Google famously outfitted the office several years ago with a three-lane red slide for workers to zoom from one story to another.
"Today it feels like the entire community of YouTube, all of the employees, were victims of this crime," said Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman. "Our hearts go out to all those who suffered."
The White House said President Donald Trump was briefed on the shooting and that officials were monitoring developments.
___
Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, Eric Tucker in Washington and Janie Har in San Francisco contributed to this report.
___
This story has been corrected with new information from authorities that three victims suffered gunshot wounds and a fourth was taken to the hospital but wasn't shot. A reference also has been removed to patients being taken to Stanford Hospital because the facility says it gave incorrect information.
VILNIUS —  Russia is expelling three Lithuanian diplomats in response to a similar move by the Baltic country in the wake of the poisoning of a former Russian double agent and his daughter in Britain, the Lithuanian Foreign Ministry said on Friday.
"We consider this to be a disproportionate response because Lithuania has fewer diplomats working in Russia than Russia has in Lithuania," a spokeswoman for the Baltic country's foreign minister said.
(Reporting by Andrius Sytas; Writing by Niklas Pollard; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)
NAIROBI, Kenya — Islamist militants in Somalia carried out multiple coordinated attacks against African Union peacekeeping forces on Sunday and claimed to have killed at least 59 Ugandan soldiers.
Ceaser Olweny, a spokesman for the Ugandan peacekeepers, said four soldiers had been killed, and six wounded.
The Shabab, a Somali terrorist group affiliated with Al Qaeda, made the attacks on three military bases and two Somali government outposts in the Lower Shabelle region, a Shabab stronghold near Mogadishu, the country’s capital.
Mr. Olweny said the attacks were coordinated.
Somali officials confirmed the attacks to the local news media.
“The number of casualties, and whether or not the dead were combatants, is used by all sides for propaganda and political objectives,” Abukar Arman, an analyst and former Somalia special envoy to the United States, said from Columbus, Ohio.
The attacks began on Sunday morning when two car bombs exploded outside the African Union base in the town of Bulo Mareer, 100 miles southwest of Mogadishu, according to Abdifatah Haji Abdulle, the deputy commissioner of Lower Shabelle.
The car bombs destroyed one African Union vehicle and one Somali government vehicle, according to Maj. Farah Osman of the Somali Army, who is stationed near the base.
“Then a large number of Al Shabab fighters began firing from under the trees,” Mr. Osman told Reuters. “It was a hellish battle.”
The Shabab claimed to have killed dozens of peacekeepers in the hourslong firefight, but the group is known to exaggerate such figures.
Mr. Olweny said soldiers in the African Union peacekeeping mission, known as Amisom, had killed 30 Shabab militants during the attacks. The Shabab said only 14 members had died.
Amisom has steadily pushed the Shabab out of major towns, but the group controls large sections of rural territory. It frequently targets Amisom bases and Somali government institutions — attacks that have intensified recently, even as American strikes against the group have increased.
The United States Africa Command, which cooperates with Somalia’s national military and security agencies, carried out nearly three dozen drone strikes against the Shabab last year.
The Amisom peacekeeping force was first deployed in 2007. More than 20,000 soldiers and police officers from six countries serve in the mission, including more than 6,000 from Uganda.
The African Union plans to gradually withdraw its troops from the country and to hand over security operations to the Somali Army by 2020.
MOSCOW —  Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Islamic State had been defeated in Syria, but it retains its destructive potential and can attack countries around the world, Interfax news agency cited him as saying.
"It is evident that despite its military situation, this terrorist group retains a significant destructive potential, and the ability to change its tactics quickly and attack countries and regions around the world," Putin said, according to Interfax.
(Writing by Polina Ivanova; Editing by Katya Golubkova)
QUETTA, Pakistan —  Gunmen riding on motorcycles carried out two separate attacks in the Pakistani city of Quetta on Monday, killing five Muslims in one shooting and four members of a Christian family in the other, police said.
Abdul Qadeer, a local police chief, said the attacks were apparently unrelated. The Islamic State group claimed the attack on the Christians in a statement carried by its Aamaq news agency. It was unclear who was behind the other attack.
Earlier Monday, Pakistan's army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa confirmed death sentences for 10 convicted militants, including the killer of a well-known Sufi singer, according to a military statement.
The military courts found the "terrorists" guilty of taking part in separate attacks that killed 62 people, it said.
The trials are closed to the public, but defendants are allowed to hire lawyers.
One of those whose sentence was confirmed was found guilty of a 2016 attack in Karachi that killed Amjad Sabri. He and his late father, Ghulam Farid Sabri, were renowned qawwali singers, a style of music rooted in Islamic mysticism.
Pakistan resumed military trials for convicted terrorists and lifted a moratorium on the death penalty after a 2014 attack on a school in Peshawar that killed more than 150 people, mostly young students.
MOSCOW —  Moscow will expel a diplomat from Montenegro, the foreign ministry said on Monday, after Montenegro expelled a Russian diplomat over a nerve agent attack in England that the British government has blamed on Russia.
(Reporting by Polina Ivanova, writing by Denis Pinchuk; editing by John Stonestreet)
MOGADISHU, Somalia —  Somalia's al-Shabab Islamic extremists on Sunday launched an attack on a base for African Union troops in the country's south, killing four Ugandan peacekeepers, said Ugandan army spokesman Brig. Richard Karemire.
Four other Ugandans were injured, Karemire told The Associated Press. At least 22 of the attackers were killed and the rest were repelled, he said.
The attack started in the morning when two suicide car bombs exploded at the entrance to the heavily fortified base in Bulo-Marer, an agricultural town in Somalia's Lower Shabelle region, said Somali army Col. Ahmed Hassan.
Nearly 100 fighters firing propelled grenades and machine guns attacked the base occupied by the Ugandan soldiers.
"That attack was repulsed but several soldiers have lost their lives to the bomb," said Hassan.
Residents reported explosions and sustained gunfire, sending hundreds of terrified villagers to the bush.
"We had a frightening day but the situation is calm now," said Nur Yusuf, a local elder reached by phone, who added that African Union and Somali troops were patrolling the town in the evening.
Al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the attack. The group said that 14 of its fighters were killed during the attack on the African Union base, according to Sheikh Abdulaziz Abu Musab, the group's military spokesman. Al-Shabab's casualty figures are often different from those issued by Somali officials.
Al-Shabab, which is fighting to impose Shariah law across Somalia, was pushed out of the capital, Mogadishu, and other major urban cities more than two years ago, but the group still carries out suicide attacks across Somalia.
___
Muhumuza reported from Kampala, Uganda
CAIRO —  Saudi air defense forces say they shot down a missile launched by Yemeni rebels at the southern Saudi border city of Jizan. The rebels say the attack was aimed at an Aramco oil facility.
In a statement late Wednesday, the Saudi-led coalition fighting the rebels known as Houthis said the attack caused shrapnel that landed in residential neighborhoods. It said the rocket was fired from the rebels' stronghold of Saada in northern Yemen.
The rebels see themselves as retaliating against heavy Saudi airstrikes in the parts of Yemen they control and have made several cross-border attacks into Saudi Arabia. Their television channel said the missile was aimed at oil tanks.
The coalition accuses the rebels of being armed by Iran and has been bombing them for three years.
JOHANNESBURG —  South African police said on Wednesday that five people had been arrested in connection with a petrol bomb attack on a bus that killed six workers on their way to the Modikwa platinum mine earlier this week.
The platinum belt has been a flashpoint of violence rooted in community grievances over jobs, revenue flows and conflict between rival unions that threatens production in the world's top producer of the precious metal.
The accused will appear in court on Thursday on charges of attempted murder, murder and malicious damage to property, police spokesman Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said.
The motive for the attack, which is still being investigated, was unknown, Mojapelo added.
The attack occurred on Monday night near the town of Burgersfort in northern Limpopo province while the workers were being driven to the Modikwa mine operated by African Rainbow Minerals and Anglo American Platinum.
Production at the mine, which produces around 300,000 ounces of platinum group metals annually, was temporarily halted.
(Reporting by Tanisha Heiberg; Editing by Alexander Winning)
OTTAWA —  NATO is not aiming to isolate Russia after a nerve agent attack on a former Russian agent and his daughter in Britain last month but had to crack down to show its unhappiness with Moscow, Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday.
The alliance last week expelled seven diplomats from the Russian mission to NATO and cut the maximum size of the delegation to 20 from 30 after the attack, which the West blames on Moscow, although the Kremlin denies it.
"We continue to strive for a better relationship with Russia because Russia is our neighbor, Russia is there to stay. We are not aiming at isolating Russia," Stoltenberg said in remarks at the University of Ottawa.
Stoltenberg said NATO was concerned by a more assertive Russia that he said had annexed Crimea, destabilized eastern Ukraine, backed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and meddled in the affairs of other nations.
"That was the reason why NATO allies and partners reacted the way they reacted after the attack in Salisbury. Because that is not a single event," he said. "It is an attack which has taken place (against) the backdrop of a pattern of behavior which we have seen over many years from Russia."
More than 100 Russian diplomats have been expelled by Western countries to punish the Kremlin over the March 4 attack in Salisbury, England.
NATO suspended all practical military and civilian cooperation with Russia after the 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
Stoltenberg later met Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whose government expelled four diplomats after the Salisbury attack.
Trudeau, speaking to reporters after the meeting, complained that Russia was spreading a "wave of interference and propaganda" against the roughly 450 Canadian troops stationed in Latvia as part of a NATO mission.
Trudeau also said Canada would "continue to reflect on the impact and the efficiency of sanctions" and was open to more discussions on what else it could do.
Trudeau, who did not give more details, noted that Canada enacted a law last year allowing the government to penalize those it says are guilty of human rights violations.
In November, Ottawa used the law to impose sanctions against 30 Russian officials who it said were complicit in the 2009 prison death of Sergei Magnitsky, an anti-corruption lawyer who was jailed after alleging a massive tax fraud.
(Reporting by David Ljunggren; Editing by Susan Thomas and Peter Cooney)
QUETTA, Pakistan —  Four members of a Christian family were gunned down in southwestern Pakistan on Monday, police said, in the latest attack on the minority community.
The family was traveling in a rickshaw when armed men on a motorcycle intercepted them and opened fire in Quetta city, the capital of Baluchistan province.
A woman was rushed to hospital. Her father and three cousins were killed.
"It appears to have been a targeted attack," provincial police official Moazzam Jah Ansari told Reuters. "It was an act of terrorism."
The attack comes a day after Pakistan's Christian community celebrated Easter on Sunday. Around 2 percent of Pakistan's population are Christians.
Minority religious festivals are a security concern in the majority Sunni Muslim country where there have been a number of high casualty attacks on Christians and Shi'ite Muslims.
Baluchistan, a region bordering Iran as well as Afghanistan, is plagued by violence by Sunni Islamist sectarian groups linked to the Taliban, al Qaeda and Islamic State. It also has an indigenous ethnic Baloch insurgency fighting against central government.
In December, a week before Christmas, two suicide bombers stormed a packed Christian church in southwestern Pakistan, killing at least 10 people and wounding up to 56, in an attack claimed by Islamic State.
The family killed on Monday had come to visit relatives in Quetta's Shahzaman road area, where a large number of the city's Christian community lives.
Rome's ancient Colosseum was lit in red for an evening in February in solidarity with persecuted Christians, particularly Asia Bibi, a Catholic woman who has been living on death row in Pakistan since 2010, when she was condemned for allegedly making derogatory remarks about Islam.
(Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Alison Williams)
LONDON —  A British soldier has been killed by an improvised explosive device in Syria, Sky News reported on Friday, quoting a U.K. Ministry of Defence spokesperson.
Earlier, U.S. officials said an American service member was  one of two people killed by an improvised bomb in Syria overnight, the first coalition service members to die in an attack there this year.
(Reporting by Larry King)
SYDNEY —  Australia's rugby sevens captain James Stannard was ruled out of the Commonwealth Games with a fractured skull following a 'one-punch' attack in Sydney early on Friday after a farewell dinner for departing coach Andy Friend.
New South Wales Police said in a statement that a 22-year-old man had been charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm after a 35-year-old man had been punched in an alleged "unprovoked" attack.
Rugby Australia (RA) later identified Stannard as the victim of the attack and said he was in hospital with a fractured skull.
"He's not available for the Commonwealth Games and that's obviously a massive disappointment for all of us and James and his family," RA high performance manager Ben Whitaker told reporters in Sydney.
"We know that right now he needs some time to heal ... and then once that's sorted, we'll look at how he can return to play."
RA said Stannard and a group of players and team management had been at a fast-food outlet following the dinner for Friend when the alleged attack occurred.
Two players in the squad, including regular captain Lewis Holland, and Friend detained the man shortly afterwards and held him until police arrived, RA said.
Friend was told earlier this month that his contract with the team would not be renewed in July, but RA said they hoped he would remain with the wider organisation.
Australia's women's Olympic gold-medal winning coach Tim Walsh will replace Friend after next month's Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast.
"We had an organised function to celebrate and recognise the role Andy Friend has played with the team," Whitaker added.
"Family and friends, players, staff all gathered for dinner and went out afterwards.
"They were all together and there was management involved the whole night, so it was a very civilised, organised event."
Stannard had replaced the injured Holland as captain for the tournament.
The men's tournament will be held on the final two days of the April 4-15 Games, with Australia drawn in Pool B with Samoa, Jamaica and England.
(Reporting by Greg Stutchbury in Wellington; Editing by Peter Rutherford/Amlan Chakraborty)
ATLANTA —  Atlanta police officers initially had to write reports by hand. Residents still can't pay water bills online. Municipal court dates are being reset. All are fallout from a ransomware attack last week that hobbled the city's invisible infrastructure.
Another ransomware attack hit Baltimore's 911 dispatch system over the weekend, prompting a roughly 17-hour shutdown of automated emergency dispatching. The Colorado Department of Transportation suffered two attacks just over a month ago. And the North Carolina county that's home to Charlotte totally rebuilt its system after a December attack.
For cash-strapped local governments, paying for robust protection against the invisible menace of a cyberattack can be a hard sell. But cyberattacks continue to proliferate, and experts say preparation and strong defensive measures are necessary to avoid the crippling effects.
"As elected officials, it's often quite easy for us to focus on the things that people see because, at the end of the day, our residents are our customers," Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said at a news conference Monday. "But we have to really make sure that we continue to focus on the things that people can't see, and digital infrastructure is very important."
Although it's vital to make sure systems are up to date and have the latest patches, malware evolves so quickly that experts also stress the importance of comprehensive backups and a quick response when an attack does happen.
"I don't think any security is flawless," said Craig McCullough, a vice president at security firm Commvault. "I always approach it from the standpoint of it's not a matter of if but when, and when it happens, are you prepared? Are you going to be able to get your data back?"
Governments, public agencies and companies need to know what data they have and make sure it's backed up. Software and hardware can be replaced, but data is much more difficult, McCullough said.
A quick response can help minimize the damage, said Dmitri Alperovitch, chief technology officer of security firm Crowdstrike. If a threat is detected immediately after it enters the network — for example, when someone clicks on a link in a phishing email or through a vulnerable server — it might be possible to stop before it spreads beyond the initially infected computer, he said.
Atlanta officials won't say whether they'll pay the $51,000 ransom, though Bottoms has said all options are on the table. Mike Cote, president of Secureworks, a security firm hired by Atlanta, has said they know who's behind the attack but aren't releasing that information.
Cybersecurity experts say the attack is consistent with the SamSam group, which is known as a sophisticated attacker and negotiator, said Jake Williams, founder of security firm Rendition Infosec.
Unlike other ransomware that might raise alarms upon infection, SamSam compromises machines without immediately locking up their files. That access is then used to spread through the network "before they press the encrypt button," Williams said.
"They put you into an extreme pain point position where paying is actually an attractive option," Williams said
He said he regularly tells clients they must make a business decision on whether to pay. He acknowledges that can be more difficult for governments, whose rules might block them from spending public funds on extortion.
Although Atlanta's critical physical infrastructure — including the city's airport, emergency response systems and water safety and treatment — were not directly affected, other departments are operating manually and some services have been suspended. Nuisances at first, issues caused by the outages could have compounded effects if they persist.
The mayor has been cautious, declining to give a timeline for when things might be up and running again after the cyberattack announced March 22. She has repeatedly said the investigation and recovery is "a marathon, not a sprint," and her focus is on making sure the city's network is safe moving forward.
But the road could be long.
The Colorado Department of Transportation was hit by a SamSam attack on Feb. 21 and again on March 1, and it was back to 80 percent functionality by Thursday said Deborah Blyth, the state's chief information security officer. Luckily, they had strong backups so they didn't even think about paying the ransom, she said.
In the weeks since the attack, they've implemented two-factor authentication for remote access and accelerated the implementation of other security measures that were already planned.
In Mecklenberg County, North Carolina, where Charlotte is located, it took a little more than 60 days for things to return to normal after a ransomware attack that began with a phishing email in December.
County officials didn't pay the ransom after consulting with federal authorities and realizing their data was backed up so they didn't need to pay to get it back, County Manager Dena Diorio said. But the process was still tedious as they had to essentially rebuild the system.
The county has taken steps to prevent another attack, including making its email system more secure and limiting employees' internet access. And they have more expensive plans — segmenting their data and moving to a cloud-based system — that will take about two years to implement, Diorio said.
Remembering the scary early days, Diorio had advice for her counterparts in Atlanta: "All I can say is: Don't panic and stay focused."
___
Associated Press writer Matt O'Brien in Providence, Rhode Island, contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON —  Four Canadian diplomats have been expelled from Russia, the latest removal in the wake of an international response to an attack on a Russian in the United Kingdom with a nerve agent.
Canada had previously expelled seven Russian personnel as part of actions taken by other countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States. The expulsion of Canadian officials was confirmed by Adam Austen, a spokesman for Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland.
(Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Editing by Bill Trott)
UNITED NATIONS —  Mostly Christian militia fighters attacked a U.N. peacekeeping base in the Central African Republic early Tuesday, and one peacekeeper from Mauritania was killed and 11 others were injured in a gunbattle that lasted several hours, the United Nations said.
U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said the attack by the anti-Balaka militias took place at a temporary U.N. peacekeeping base in Tagbara, about 60 miles northeast of the central mining town of Bambari. The peacekeeping mission said more than 22 anti-Balaka fighters died in the clash.
Dujarric said the U.N. peacekeeping mission sent reinforcements to the base, and he strongly condemned the attack.
The U.N. Security Council condemned the attack "in the strongest terms" and reiterated that attacks against peacekeepers may constitute war crimes. Its members called on the Central African Republic government to swiftly investigate the attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.
Separately, Dujarric said, the U.N. mission reported that later Tuesday morning peacekeepers discovered the bodies of 21 civilians, including four women and four children, in Tagbara. The mission said the bodies were found near a church, and the victims had been killed with "traditional weapons."
The Security Council said it supports an investigation by the U.N. peacekeeping mission to see if the civilian casualties are linked to the attack against the Tagbara base.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the attack on peacekeepers and is "outraged" at the killing of the 21 civilians and injuries to 14 other civilians, Dujarric said.
"The secretary-general calls on the Central African Republic authorities to investigate these attacks and quickly bring those responsible to justice," he said.
In another incident, Dujarric said U.N. peacekeepers were informed Monday evening that a rebel group known as the UPC had detained 23 people in Tagbara, including 13 women, seven men and three children. He said they were released peacefully to U.N. peacekeepers and spent the night at the temporary base to ensure their safety.
The U.N. mission condemned the attacks on civilians and said that "nothing can justify these acts that can be considered war crimes."
It said an investigation will be carried out that "leaves no possibility for impunity."
Elsewhere, Dujarric said, U.N. peacekeepers and Central African Republic forces launched a joint operation on Saturday and rescued 15 people who had been taken hostage by the Lord's Resistance Army rebel group led by Joseph Kony, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes.
The LRA has wreaked havoc in central Africa over the years in violent rampages that include the abduction of children. It has taken boys who are then forced to become fighters and girls who become sex slaves, one of the reasons the group has gained international attention in recent times.
The Central African Republic has faced deadly interreligious and intercommunal fighting since 2013, when predominantly Muslim Seleka rebels seized power in the capital, Bangui. Mostly Christian anti-Balaka militias fought back, resulting in thousands of people killed and hundreds of thousands displaced.
The impoverished country saw a period of relative peace in late 2015 and 2016 but violence has intensified and spread in the past year.
LONDON —  Britain is looking for a "proportionate way" to respond to the threat posed by Russia, a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Tuesday, after a retired Russian army official said the poisoning of a former spy could start a new world war.
"We need to respond in a proportionate way to this aggressive behavior from Russia and that's what we're doing," the spokesman said when asked if there was a real risk of triggering a war.
Evgeny Buzhinsky, a retired lieutenant general, was quoted in British newspapers on Tuesday as saying the fallout of the attack could trigger "the last war in the history of mankind".
(Reporting By William James. Writing by Andrew MacAskill; editing by Stephen Addison)
MOSCOW —  How far a row escalates between Moscow and the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain does not depend on Russia, its Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a news briefing on Monday.
In times of cold war there were some rules, but now Britain and the United States had dropped all propriety and were playing children's games, he said.
Russia has denied responsibility for the March 4 attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the English city of Salisbury.
(Reporting by Maria Kiselyova and Christian Lowe, writing by Denis Pinchuk; editing by John Stonestreet)
Britain’s military laboratory has not established whether the nerve agent that poisoned a Russian former double agent and his daughter came from Russia, the laboratory’s chief executive said on Tuesday.
“We have not verified the precise source,” the executive, Gary Aitkenhead, told Sky News. Mr. Aitkenhead said his laboratory, the Defense Science and Technology Laboratory, had confirmed that the poison was Novichok, or from its family of nerve agents, and that it was of military grade.
“We provided the scientific information to the government, who have then used a number of other sources to piece together the conclusions they have come to,” Mr. Aitkenhead said. He said it was “not our job to say where it actually was manufactured.”
The British authorities have blamed Russia for the March 4 poisoning, with Foreign Minister Boris Johnson suggesting it was “overwhelmingly likely” that President Vladimir V. Putin had ordered the attack. Last week, investigators said the nerve agent had been smeared on the front door of the home of the former spy, Sergei V. Skripal, in Salisbury, England.
The Russian government has denied involvement in the attack and has accused British officials of conducting a biased and shoddy investigation. Mr. Aitkenhead’s remarks gave the Russians an opening to press those claims again on Tuesday: A spokesman for Mr. Putin told reporters that Britain should apologize to Russia for its “mad accusations.”
In a statement, the government of Prime Minister Theresa May said the laboratory’s work was “only one part of the intelligence picture.” The overall picture, the statement said, also included the British assessment that Russia had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents and that it had stockpiled small quantities of Novichok.
In response to the poisoning, the United States and more than 20 other nations expelled dozens of Russian diplomats and intelligence officers, prompting the Russians to retaliate in kind, expelling American and other Western envoys.
Mr. Skripal remains in critical condition, but his daughter, Yulia, regained consciousness last week. Mr. Skripal settled in Britain after being freed in 2010 in an exchange of imprisoned spies with the United States. His daughter was visiting him from Russia when the attack occurred.
BERLIN —  German police say a woman and her adult son have apparently been killed by their dog at an apartment in the city of Hannover.
Police said a relative alerted authorities on Tuesday night after seeing a body through a window of the apartment. They said firefighters had to catch the Staffordshire terrier before finding the bodies of the 52-year-old woman and her 27-year-old son.
In a statement Wednesday, police said a forensic expert determined that the two were "apparently killed by the dog."
Authorities in Germany tightened rules on attack dogs following a spate of dog attacks on people, including children, in 2000.
WASHINGTON —  Following attacks by President Donald Trump on Amazon.com Inc, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce criticized attacks by government officials against American companies.
“It’s inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," said Neil Bradley, executive vice president and chief policy officer for the Chamber of Commerce, the nation's largest business group.
"The U.S. economy is the world’s most powerful because it embraces the free enterprise system and the rule of law, whereby policy matters are handled through recognized policymaking processes. The record is clear: Deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.”
(Reporting by Ginger Gibson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
MOSCOW —  The Latest on the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain (all times local):
11:15 p.m.
A spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry says Britain's failure to track down the source of a nerve agent used to poison a Russian ex-spy shows that the accusations against Russia have been based merely on baseless suspicion.
Maria Zakharova cited the head of the British defense laboratory's acknowledgement that scientists didn't identify the origin of the nerve agent used to poison former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter in England on March 4.
In a mocking statement posted Tuesday on Facebook, Zakharova said: "I wouldn't be surprised if tomorrow (British Prime Minister) Theresa May and her bright team say that all their speeches in Parliament and efforts to build a global coalition resulted from the Russian hackers hacking into Disney cartoon studios."
___
11 p.m.
The Kremlin says Britain will have to apologize for unfounded accusations against Russia over the poisoning of an ex-spy.
Speaking Tuesday in Ankara, Russian President Vladimir Putin cited the head of Britain's defense laboratory who said that its scientists couldn't identify the precise source of the nerve agent used to attack former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter.
Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Britain will have to apologize to Russia for its "mad accusations" that "have no foundation whatsoever." Peskov says that London will have to account for its claims before its allies, who have evicted scores of Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity.
Britain blames Russia for the March 4 attack on Skripal and his daughter, a claim that Moscow denies.
___
10:25 p.m.
A Russian military chemical expert says the nerve agent that Britain says has poisoned a former Russian spy could have been created anywhere.
Igor Rybalchenko, the head of chemical lab at the Russian Defense Ministry's scientific center chemical laboratory, said Tuesday that "it's not a problem" for a well-equipped lab anywhere in the world to synthesize the Soviet-designed agent dubbed Novichok in the West.
He told state-funded RT television that all precursors for making the agent are available on the open market.
Britain has accused Russia of poisoning former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter on March 4, accusations that Russia has denied. The head of Britain's defense laboratory said Tuesday that its scientists have not identified the precise source of the nerve agent used to attack them.
___
10 p.m.
Russian President Vladimir Putin says Moscow wants a thorough probe into the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain and will demand to be part of it.
Putin, speaking Tuesday in Ankara following talks with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, cited the head of Britain's defense laboratory who said that its scientists have not identified the precise source of the nerve agent used to attack former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter.
Putin said, given the lack of precise information about the agent's origin, "the speed at which the anti-Russian campaign has been launched causes bewilderment."
Britain has blamed Russia for the poisoning, the accusations Russia vehemently denied. Both the West and Russia have expelled over 150 envoys each in the dispute.
Putin said the type of the nerve agent used in the March 4 poisoning could be made in some 20 nations.
___
9:40 p.m.
Russia's envoy to the European Union says British accusations of Russian involvement in the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy could have been an attempt to distract public attention from Britain's troubled exit from the EU.
Vladimir Chizhov said Tuesday "this distractive maneuver could have been aimed at the British society, which has remained split after the 2016 Brexit referendum."
Britain has accused Russia of involvement in the March 4 nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, the accusations Russia has vehemently denied.
Moscow alleged that British intelligence agencies could have been behind the poisoning.
Chizhov says "Russia clearly had no motive" to attack Skripal, who was convicted of spying for Britain but freed in a 2010 spy swap. He added Moscow had "no outstanding issues" against the 66-year-old Skripal.
___
6:50 p.m.
France is refusing to answer a detailed list of questions from Russia over the spy poisoning scandal in Britain that has turned into a multi-country diplomatic dispute.
France expelled four Russian diplomats last week over the nerve agent attack on Sergei Skripal. Russia sent France 10 questions about why France thinks Russia was involved, and about France's own chemical weapons programs.
A French diplomatic official said Tuesday that Britain had informed France about the details of its investigation. The official did not divulge those details, but said Russian involvement in the attack is the only "plausible explanation."
The official told The Associated Press that France would not respond to Russia until Moscow answers questions posed by Britain's government on March 12. Britain at the time asked the Russian ambassador to say whether the attack was carried out by the Russian state, or whether Russia lost control of the nerve agent used.
Britain says the Soviet-made nerve agent Novichok was used in the attack last month. Russia vehemently denies any responsibility.
—By Sylvie Corbet in Paris
___
6:30 p.m.
The chief executive of Britain's Porton Down defense laboratory says its scientists have identified the nerve agent used to poison Sergei and Yulia Skripal, but have not verified its "precise source."
Gary Aitkenhead says "it's our job to provide the scientific evidence that identifies what the particular nerve agent is ... but it's not our job to say where that was actually manufactured."
Britain says the Skripals were poisoned with a Soviet-developed nerve agent, and that the Russian state must be behind the attack.
Russia denies responsibility and has suggested the poison may have come from Britain.
Aitkenhead said Tuesday that the attack with a highly toxic Novichok nerve agent was "probably only within the capabilities of a state actor."
He says there is "no way" the nerve agent could have come from the high-security Porton Down facility.
___
5:50 p.m.
The global chemical weapons control body will hold an emergency meeting to discuss the poisoning of former spy Sergei Skripal, at Russia's request.
Yury Filatov, Russia's ambassador to Ireland, says Moscow asked the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons "to call an extraordinary session" at its headquarters in The Hague." The organization says the meeting will be held at 0800GMT Wednesday.
Filatov says Russia wants Britain to "provide every possible element of evidence" it holds about the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the English city of Salisbury.
Britain blames Russia for the pair's poisoning with a Soviet-developed nerve agent. Russia denies involvement.
Filatov said Tuesday that if the U.K. does not show evidence, "there are ample grounds to assume that we are dealing with a grand scale provocation organized in London aimed to discredit Russia."
___
1:30 p.m.
A top Russian diplomat says the nerve agent poisoning of a former Russian spy may have been arranged by Britain to justify military spending.
The March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury sent shockwaves across Europe. British authorities suspect Skripal was poisoned by a Soviet-made nerve agent. Moscow vehemently denies its responsibility. European Union nations, the United States and other Western countries joined Britain in expelling more than 150 Russian diplomats from their countries.
Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko in comments relayed by Russian news agencies on Tuesday called Skripal's poisoning a "provocation arranged by Britain" in order to justify high military spending because "they need a major enemy."
CARACAS, Venezuela —  An independent presidential candidate running against Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro says government supporters physically attacked his campaign.
Henri Falcon tweeted Monday that opposition lawmaker Teodoro Campos was campaigning with him in a poor neighborhood in the capital of Caracas when a man wearing steel knuckles struck Campos.
The attack sent Campos to the hospital with a serious head injury, said Falcon, a prominent candidate against Maduro in the May 20 election.
Falcon wasn't hurt, and called on Maduro to bring his supporters under control.
"None of this is going to stop us," Falcon said, adding that he will hold the president responsible for peace or violence during the election campaign.
Maduro, speaking Tuesday on a state televised broadcast before a crowd of supporters, said that he had called for an investigation into the attack and that 17 people had already been arrested.
He urged his supporters to keep the campaign peaceful.
"If you see any candidate for president, tell them hello for me," Maduro said with a smile, drawing cheers from the audience.
A retired military officer and former governor, Falcon vowed to continue campaigning despite the attack.
Falcon added that several people campaigning with him through one of the largest slums in the country had been stripped of their belongings and then assaulted.
Falcon recently launched his campaign, breaking with the opposition alliance that refused to participate in an election it says has been rigged by Maduro, who heads the country's socialist party.
EDINBURGH —  The British government is considering allowing visits to Yulia Skripal, who is recovering in hospital after being poisoned along with her father, a Russian ex-spy, in a nerve agent attack blamed by Britain on Russia.
"We are considering requests for consular access in line with our obligations under international and domestic law, including the rights and wishes of Yulia Skripal," a spokeswoman for Britain's foreign ministry in London said.
The Russian Embassy in London said in a tweet on Friday that "we insist on the right to see" Skripal, a Russian citizen.
(Reporting by Elisabeth O'Leary; Editing by Catherine Evans)
ROME —  Russia on Friday gave two Italian diplomats a week to leave the country, Italy's Foreign Ministry said in a statement, amid an increasingly bitter standoff over a nerve attack against a former Russian spy living in England.
On Monday, Italy expelled two Russian diplomats in an expression of solidarity with NATO and European Union ally Britain.
Earlier on Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned a slew of senior Western diplomats to set out the retaliatory measures it was taking with the West after numerous countries had expelled Russian diplomats.
(Reporting by Steve Scherer)
ATLANTA — Friday’s acquittal of Noor Salman, the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando, Fla., nightclub in 2016, on charges that she helped carry out and cover up the attack, likely means that no one will ever be convicted in connection with the siege.
But the scrutiny of Ms. Salman by law enforcement was not unusual.
(Read about Noor Salman’s acquittal.)
In major cases, even when the suspects are killed and never brought to trial, law enforcement officials carry out exhaustive inquiries that can lead to charges against family members and acquaintances. The charges are often, but not always, connected to the crimes that provoked the primary investigation.
“It’s easy to identify people you can charge,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when nine people were killed at a church in Charleston. “The hard part is exercising the discretion and charging the right people.”
He added, “You’ve got to look at each case on its merits.”
Here is a look at some recent cases that stemmed from investigations of high-profile attacks.
After the April 2013 bombing of the Boston Marathon, which killed three people and injured many others, prosecutors brought a rare capital case in Massachusetts, seeking and securing the death penalty against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving attacker.
At least five others were also charged in the sweeping investigation.
Three of Mr. Tsarnaev’s college classmates came to the attention of federal officials and eventually spent time in prison: Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, who hindered the government’s investigation by removing evidence from Mr. Tsarnaev’s dormitory room, and Robel Phillipos, who was convicted of lying to the F.B.I.
Another man, Stephen Silva, pleaded guilty to drug and weapons charges; although he had no direct connection to the bombing, he had previously lent Mr. Tsarnaev a handgun, its serial number filed off, that was used by the Tsarnaevs to kill a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer.
Khairullozhon Matanov, a friend of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s older brother and accomplice in the marathon attack, admitted to deceiving investigators about his ties to the brothers and was ordered to prison.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s widow, Katherine Russell, was also the subject of investigation and widespread speculation in the news media, but the authorities never brought a case against her.
Dylann S. Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in June 2015, was captured the day after his rampage. About three months later, federal agents arrested one of Mr. Roof’s friends and accused him of lying to investigators and withholding information about the planned attack.
The friend, Joseph C. Meek Jr., ultimately pleaded guilty and described how Mr. Roof had told him of his preparations for the attack, including trips to Charleston to scout out the church and his plans to carry ammunition in a fanny pack.
Mr. Meek, who was never called to testify at Mr. Roof’s trial, was sentenced to 27 months in prison. He is expected to be released in September, according to the federal Bureau of Prisons.
Mr. Roof, convicted by a federal jury in December 2016, was sentenced to death.
Despite some fears that Stephen Paddock, who opened fire in October on the Las Vegas Strip, had help from a second gunman, law enforcement officials now believe that he acted alone when he killed 58 people and wounded hundreds of others.
The investigation, though, led to the arrest of an ammunition dealer, who was accused of manufacturing armor-piercing bullets without having a proper license. The dealer, Douglas Haig, acknowledged meeting Mr. Paddock and selling him ammunition, but has said he “had no contribution to what Paddock did.”
“I had no way to see into his mind,” he said. “The product that I sold him had absolutely nothing to do with what he did. I’m a vendor. I’m a merchant whose name was released.”
Mr. Paddock’s girlfriend, Marilou Danley, who was questioned extensively after the attack, will not be charged, the authorities said in January.
A married couple’s terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., in December 2015 led to a series of prosecutions, including one against a man who bought two assault rifles that were used in the rampage.
Enrique Marquez Jr. pleaded guilty in February 2017 to providing material support and resources to terrorists for his role in plotting attacks with Syed Rizwan Farook. The men never carried out their planned assaults, which targeted Riverside City College and freeway commuters, but Mr. Farook used Mr. Marquez as a “straw purchaser” to buy weapons that were later used in San Bernardino. Mr. Marquez, who faces up to 25 years in prison, has not yet been sentenced.
The federal government also secured guilty pleas — for conspiracy to commit immigration fraud — from Mr. Farook’s brother and sister-in-law. Mr. Marquez’s wife pleaded guilty to conspiracy, perjury and false statements charges that were brought when investigators discovered what they described as a sham marriage to Mr. Marquez.
Mr. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, were killed in a gun battle with the police after a pursuit.
Many investigations do not lead to charges. After a man killed 10 people at a community college in rural Oregon in 2015, for example, the authorities found that he acted alone and did not prosecute anyone. And officials in Texas have not brought any charges linked to November’s attack on a church in Sutherland Springs, in which 26 people were killed.
ORLANDO, Fla. —  The Latest on the trial of the widow of the Orlando nightclub shooting that killed 49 people in 2016 (all times local):
1:15 p.m.
The widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando nightclub has walked out of jail after she was acquitted hours earlier in federal court.
Noor Salman left the building around 1 p.m. Friday, about two hours after a jury found her not guilty of helping her husband commit the Pulse nightclub attack and lying to the FBI.
She didn't answer questions from the media, and hung onto the arm of her attorney as they walked to a waiting car.
A jury found her not guilty of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
___
11 a.m.
The hands of the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at a gay Orlando nightclub were shaking in the moments before a jury acquitted her of all charges.
WKMG TV reported that Noor Salman's family gasped Friday when a court official said aloud that she had been found not guilty of lying to the FBI and helping her husband plan the attack. She had faced life in prison if convicted.
After the verdicts were read, Salman began sobbing with joy and her family held each other. On the other side of the courtroom, the families of the victims of the Pulse shooting sat stone-faced and silent.
Outside the courthouse, Salman's family said they were eager for her to be able to see her young son again. She has been in jail for the past two years awaiting trial.
___
10:30 a.m.
The widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at a gay Orlando nightclub has been acquitted on charges of lying to the FBI and helping her husband in the 2016 attack.
Noor Salman was found not guilty of charges of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization.
Salman was married to Omar Mateen when he attacked the Pulse nightclub.
Prosecutors say Salman knew about Mateen's guns, his affinity for violent Muslim extremist videos and his intention to attack a location, but did nothing to stop him.
Defense attorneys described Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ who was abused by her husband, and who didn't know of his plans because he concealed much of his life from her.
___
9:45 a.m.
Jurors have reached a verdict in the trial of the widow of the Orlando nightclub shooter who killed 49 people in 2016.
Officials from U.S. District Court in Orlando said Friday that the jury had reached its decision and it will be announced in about 30 minutes.
Noor Salman is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization. She faces life in prison if convicted.
Salman was married to Omar Mateen when he attacked the gay nightclub.
Prosecutors say Salman knew about Mateen's guns, his affinity for violent Muslim extremist videos and his intention to attack a location, but did nothing to stop him.
Defense attorneys described Salman as a simple woman with a low IQ who was abused by her husband, and who didn't know of his plans because he concealed much of his life from her.
___
11:25 p.m.
Jurors in the trial of a woman accused of aiding her husband's terrorist attack against an Orlando nightclub will deliberate her fate for a third day.
Noor Salman is charged with obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization. She faces up to life in prison if convicted of all charges.
Salman's husband was Omar Mateen, who shot and killed 49 people in the Pulse nightclub in June 2016. Police killed him after the attack.
Prosecutors say Salman knew about Mateen's plans and did nothing to stop them. Her lawyers say she had no knowledge of them and was mentally and physically abused by him. They say she wasn't an Islamic extremist.
KARACHI, Pakistan —  A Pakistani political party placed on the U.S. list of foreign terrorist organizations vowed on Wednesday to continue its political activities and participate in upcoming elections.
The Milli Muslim League (MML) is controlled by Islamist leader Hafiz Saeed, who has a $10 million U.S. bounty on his head. The group shot to prominence after fielding a candidate in a September 2017 by-election to fill a seat vacated by deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif.
The U.S. State Department on Tuesday termed MML an alias for militant organization Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), or Army of the Pure, blamed for a bloody 2008 attack in India.
"We clearly state that on U.S. announcements we will not discontinue our political activities at any cost," MML president Saifullah Khalid said, reading from a statement in Karachi.
"Milli Muslim League will fully participate in the 2018 elections and will field candidates from across Pakistan."
Saeed is the founder of LeT, which is also on the U.S. terrorist list and blamed by the United States and India for a four-day militant attack on Mumbai in 2008 in which 166 people were killed.
Saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the attack.
Images of Saeed appeared on MML campaign posters during rallies held in two major Pakistani cities leading up to by-elections last year.
The party was subsequently barred from participating in polls by Pakistan's electoral commission, a decision that was overturned by the courts.
"We have confidence in our higher judiciary ... MML will be registered and it will emerge as a big national party in future," Khalid said.
Khalid termed the U.S. decision a violation of basic human rights and an open intervention in Pakistan's internal affairs, asking for the State Department to bring evidence before the courts.
"Make no mistake: whatever LeT chooses to call itself, it remains a violent terrorist group. The United States supports all efforts to ensure that LeT does not have a political voice until it gives up violence as a tool of influence," the U.S. State Department said in a statement.
Under pressure from the United States, the United Nations and international institutions to crack down on terrorist financing, Pakistan drew up secret plans last December for a "takeover" of charities linked to Saeed.
Saeed has since taken the government decision to court.
Saeed's freedom in Pakistan, where he holds rallies, has been a thorn in Pakistan’s relations with old rival India and the United States.
(Reporting by Syed Raza Hassan; Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Nick Macfie)
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is weighing further retaliation against Russia for meddling in the election and interfering in the affairs of the United States and its allies, the top U.S. intelligence official said Wednesday.
"This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done — and soon — above where we are right now," National Intelligence Director Dan Coats told reporters at a breakfast briefing. "I would just say stay tuned on that. I think we are becoming more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."
Russia has been accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential election and of being behind the March 4 nerve agent attack on ex-Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in the city of Salisbury, England.
The poisoning plunged relations between the West and Russia to their lowest ebb since the Cold War. More than two dozen Western allies expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain. Russia responded by ordering the same number of their envoys out.
Russia has denied being behind the nerve agent attack. In Moscow, Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, the top KGB successor agency, said the poisoning was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."
Naryshkin said the poisoning was the latest example of the U.S.-led efforts to undermine Russia, adding that the Russia-West chill is comparable to the Cold War.
Coats said the U.S. agrees with British Prime Minister Theresa May who said that Russia is the only nation state capable of using the nerve agent in such an attack.
"They (the Russians) either instituted it themselves or they lost control of it and somebody else did it. When you look at the history of it — the Russian malign activities and so forth — it's not hard to come to the conclusion that the Russians were out to send a signal to their other spies who have come out of the cold. Or (it was) just a continued power play by (Russian President Vladimir) Putin just prior to his election," Coats said.
Putin was pushing hard to get as many votes as possible in his re-election bid so the attack might have been his way of "playing Mr. Strongman" and persuading voters into thinking his is the leader to bring Russia back into power after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s.
He described Putin as "shrewd" and "calculating" and said when dealing with the former KGB officer, the U.S. needs to "go in with eyes wide open and with a high degree of skepticism."
Coats was asked why the U.S. decided to retaliate against Russia by closing its consulate in Seattle, which was near a submarine base, Naval Base Kitsap, as well as Boeing Co. operations.
The Russians didn't decide to open a consulate in Seattle because of "the climate or the nice living conditions," Coats said. "One could assume that they went there because there were (intelligence) collection opportunities."
HOUSTON — A cyberattack on a shared data network forced four of the nation’s natural-gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers over the last week.
No gas service was interrupted, the companies said, and the interruption of customer transactions was merely a precaution. It was unclear whether any customer data was stolen.
The attack highlighted the potential vulnerability of the nation’s energy system, cyberexperts say. Beyond consumer and business data — energy companies possess much proprietary information about their holdings, trading strategies and exploration and production technologies — the increasing dependence of pipeline infrastructure on digital systems makes them a particularly ripe target. Control valves, pressure monitors and other equipment connected to wireless networks are vital to daily functions of everything from refineries to oil wells.
With nearly 2.5 million miles of oil, gas and chemical pipelines crisscrossing the country, intrusions into control systems could do more than disrupt deliveries, said Andrew R. Lee, a cybersecurity expert at the law firm Jones Walker in New Orleans. The risks include “explosions, spills, or fires, which easily will threaten human life, property and the environment,” he said.
Nothing close to that kind of disaster happened this time. But the pipeline industry leaders Oneok; Energy Transfer Partners; Boardwalk Pipeline Partners; and Eastern Shore Natural Gas, a Chesapeake Utilities subsidiary, all reported communications system interruptions.
The attack’s target appears to have been Latitude Technologies, a Texas-based provider of electronic data-sharing between pipeline companies and their gas producer and utility customers. The company handles the critical computer communications of gas storage facilities, as well as sales contracts and shipment scheduling.
Chris Bronk, a cybersecurity expert at the University of Houston, said such attacks on the gas marketing communications hub is a way to gather intelligence on the entire gas industry.
“If I compromise their operations, I can see all the buyers and sellers,” he said. “If I can persistently be in their network I can issue fake transactions.” In that way, Mr. Bronk added, hackers could potentially jumble gas shipments, and even cause electricity production outages.
Latitude Technologies, a unit of Energy Services Group, declined to discuss the disruption in detail. In a statement, it said, “We do not believe any customer data was compromised.”
The Department of Homeland Security was investigating the attack, and no suspect has been publicly identified. But the attack came shortly after the department and the F.B.I. issued a report alleging that Russia was taking aim at the electric grid and other critical infrastructure with cyber probes.
The House Committee on Science, Space and Technology released a staff report this month that described Russian efforts to influence American energy markets and energy policy through inflammatory posts on social media. The motivation for such efforts appeared to be the increase in exports of liquefied natural gas from the United States, a challenge to Russian dominance in European markets.
Cybercriminals, frequently suspected of working for foreign governments, have been increasingly active in the energy sector in recent years. Last fall, hackers penetrated safety systems of a petrochemical plant in Saudi Arabia, the latest in a spate of increasingly sophisticated attacks on the kingdom’s energy infrastructure. An attack on Ukraine’s grid in 2015 led to extensive blackouts.
American gas pipeline companies were targeted in 2012, although the damage was believed to have been limited. Employees of several pipeline companies have been targets of spear-phishing attacks — efforts to lure them to click on email attachments containing malicious code.
The Trump administration has announced that it is establishing an office within the Department of Energy to shore up cybersecurity for critical infrastructure like nuclear plants, refineries and pipelines.
CHICAGO —  A man whose family was paid $1.5 million by the city of Chicago after he died in police custody was under federal investigation at the time.
The Chicago Sun-Times reports that Justin Cook was a member of the Four Corner Hustlers street gang. Records show he was one of three unindicted co-conspirators named in a racketeering indictment.
That case allegedly ties 11 gang members to six slayings, along with several robberies, batteries and drug-related offenses. It's set for trial next year.
The 29-year-old Cook died in 2014 after police allegedly refused to give him his inhaler as he suffered an asthma attack after being arrested. His estate sued the city and three officers. City officials authorized the settlement in 2016.
A spokesman says the Chicago Law Department determined there was "a significant chance" police would be found liable.
___
Information from: Chicago Sun-Times, http://chicago.suntimes.com/
SOFIA —  Bulgaria needs more time to decide whether to follow NATO and EU allies in expelling Russian diplomats over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy, its deputy prime minister said on Thursday.
Bulgaria, current holder of the European Union's presidency, recalled its ambassador from Moscow after the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in England in the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two.
But it has stopped short of following most EU members and allies in NATO, including the United States, which have expelled dozens of Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain over the March 4 attack.
"The political situation in Bulgaria is such that these types of decisions have to be taken by consensus," deputy prime minister Tomislav Donchev told Reuters in an interview.
"At the moment, for good or bad, there is no such consensus," he said.
The diplomatic standoff between the West and Russia has struck a raw nerve in Bulgaria, where one of the junior partners in the coalition government and also the opposition Socialists, favor pursuing good ties with Russia.
On Friday Prime Minister Boyko Borissov said the government has expressed its solidarity with its EU and NATO allies, but would not expel Russian diplomats for now as it needed to keep dialogue open with Moscow as an EU chair.
Bulgarian deputy foreign minister Juri Sterk met the Russian envoy to Sofia on Friday and expressed Sofia's serious concerns over the reports of a possible link of persons and organizations from Russia and the use of a nerve agent in England.
Separately, further highlighting the sensitivity of the issue for the coalition, the government issued a statement saying Donchev had not made any "assessments" about the government's stance regarding the parties to the Skripal case.
"BARBARIC" ATTACK
Bulgaria, which was liberated from Ottoman Turkish rule by Russia, became one of the most obedient Soviet satellite states during the Cold War. Many Bulgarians feel a strong cultural affinity for Russia, with which they share the Cyrillic script and Orthodox Christianity.
This legacy translates into a coalition government in which the center-right GERB party shares power with three smaller nationalist parties which to varying degrees support better ties with Russia and argue that Bulgaria should take a balanced position over the Skripal case.
They have opposed a call by a senior GERB official for Bulgaria to follow the lead of its allies and expel Russian diplomats.
Both President Rumen Radev and the biggest opposition party, the Socialists, are also insisting that more concrete proof is needed of Russian involvement in the Skripal poisoning.
"I categorically think these (calls for Bulgaria to expel  Russian diplomats) are a mistake," said Volen Siderov, leader of the pro-Russian, nationalist Attack party, one of GERB's junior coalition partners.
"We have one unclear case. We have no evidence of Russia's participation," he said in a statement.
Donchev said in his interview that any action undertaken by Bulgaria would be seen as a signal of solidarity with Britain and its allies and also as a signal to Russia.
Touching on the domestic political situation, he said: "Taking into account that our government is a coalition... I am not convinced that such a decision can be taken so easily and so quickly."
Donchev said Bulgaria would wait for a report from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, adding that Sofia was monitoring developments closely.
"What happened in Great Britain is ... unacceptable. It is barbaric, it is a chemical weapon, it is a military toxic substance," Donchev said.
Referring to Bulgaria's history of close ties with Russia, Donchev said: "This is an undeniable fact. History, though, is sometimes a good, and sometimes a bad, teacher in politics."
(Additional reporting by Angel Krasimirov; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Gareth Jones)
My brother returned from a calcium scan of his heart a few years ago with the happy news that his coronary arteries were free of hardened plaque that could suggest serious underlying heart disease.
Although the test was not covered by insurance, he thought the hundreds of dollars it cost at the time were well worth it. He is a negligence lawyer who was then nearing age 70. The result was a great relief, given his age, stress-filled profession, a not always heart-healthy diet and our family history. Three male blood relatives, including our father and grandfather, had suffered heart attacks in their 50s and all three had succumbed to heart disease by their early 70s.
Fortunately, my brother did not assume that calcium-free arteries meant he could throw caution to the winds, eat anything he wanted and forget about exercise, controlling his weight and taking medication to keep his blood pressure and cholesterol within healthy limits.
I do wonder, however, if a clean score on a calcium scan prompts some people to ignore well-established measures to protect their hearts and blood vessels. As Dr. John Mandrola wrote in a Medscape commentary in February after President Trump’s physical exam, “Will knowing he has coronary calcium, which is present in about 85 percent of white men his age, lead to better cardiac health?” Or will he and countless other continue to dine on cheeseburgers and fries loaded with saturated fat and calories their girth suggests they do not need?
The cost of a coronary calcium scan, though still not covered by insurance, has come down significantly — to about $100, in some cases — and could be of great value for millions of aging Americans at risk of life-threatening heart disease. It is one of two currently popular noninvasive X-ray techniques to assess cardiac risk and help determine who could benefit from treatments to ward off a crippling or fatal heart attack. The other test, a CT angiogram, is usually covered by insurance but is most often done only when other tests or symptoms suggest possible blockages in the arteries that feed the heart.
A cardiac calcium scan is a specialized type of low-dose X-ray that highlights calcium deposits in the plaque that can line and clog arteries feeding the heart. The more calcium, the more plaque a person is likely to have and the greater the risk of a blockage that can precipitate a heart attack if a piece of plaque breaks loose. The procedure, known as multi-slice computerized tomography, does not require that a dye be injected into the bloodstream to visualize the coronary arteries, though the findings are less precise than those from a CT angiogram, which requires a dye.
A calcium scan is most useful to assess patients considered to be at moderate risk of heart disease, as well as those whose risk is uncertain. Someone who has 5 percent to 7.5 percent chance of suffering a heart attack in the next 10 years, based on standard risk factors like age, gender, race, cholesterol level, blood pressure, smoking behavior and the presence of diabetes, is considered to be at moderate risk. The scan can also be helpful for patients deemed at low risk but with a family history of heart attack at a relatively young age, as in the case of my brother.
Dr. Mandrola, a cardiac electrophysiologist at Baptist Health in Louisville, Ky., recently reviewed both the main benefits and limitations of a cardiac calcium scan. He pointed out that the accepted nonmedical way of assessing a person’s risk of a heart attack — based on standard risk factors — is imprecise and often overestimates the risk of underlying heart disease, although it is frequently used to decide whether the patient should be taking medication, like a statin to lower cholesterol.
But when findings on a calcium scan are combined with the presence of these traditional risk factors, the result gives a clearer picture of a person’s risk of suffering a heart attack in the next decade. Also, if the calcium score is zero, it might mean the person can safely skip taking a statin or other heart-protective medication.
On the other hand, Dr. Mandrola suggested, if the scan shows calcium deposits, it might motivate some people “to make healthy lifestyle changes.” As shown in one analysis of six studies involving 11,000 patients, those told they had coronary calcium were two to three times more likely than those with zero calcium to start taking a baby aspirin or a drug to lower cholesterol or reduce blood pressure and to adopt heart-saving behaviors like quitting smoking or exercising more.
A calcium score of 1 to 99 is considered indicative of mild disease; a score of 100 to 399, moderate disease; and a score of 400 or higher, severe disease.
But measuring coronary calcium is not a surefire indication of a person’s risk. For one thing, the test measures arterial plaque that is hardened and firmly attached to the lining of coronary vessels. It does not measure the soft plaque that can rupture and travel through the coronary circulation until it reaches a narrowing it cannot pass, leading to a heart attack or stroke.
Dr. Udo Hoffmann, a radiologist at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School in Boston, told me, “Coronary calcium does indicate the extent of coronary disease. If there’s a lot of calcium, there’s likely a lot of atherosclerosis in general and a greater chance of a seriously narrowed artery or plaque that is vulnerable to rupture.” However, he said, even a person with no coronary calcium and very little atherosclerosis could still have a small area that can spell future trouble.
In other words, having zero coronary calcium is not a license to ignore well-established cardiac risk factors like elevated cholesterol and blood pressure, smoking, overweight and a sedentary lifestyle. “It’s not a ticket to be reckless, but it can help reduce a person’s anxiety about their risk of a heart attack,” Dr. Hoffmann said. “The calcium score is a risk assessment tool, helpful in tailoring medical therapy, diet and exercise.”
There is still no definitive evidence from randomized controlled clinical trials to show that patients with elevated calcium scores who are treated to lower their risk actually experience a reduced rate of cardiac events. Researchers at Wake Forest School of Medicine have calculated that it would require a costly trial of about 30,000 people deemed to be at a low-intermediate risk of a future heart attack to show such a benefit.
KABUL, Afghanistan —  An Afghan official says at least five civilians and 35 insurgents have been killed in an airstrike by Afghan forces in northern Kunduz province.
Nematullah Temori, spokesman for the provincial governor in Kunduz, said Tuesday that 55 civilians were wounded in the attack a day earlier in Dashti Archi district. He said a government delegation is investigating the incident.
Defense Ministry spokesman Mohammad Radmanish earlier said the airstrike targeted Taliban fighters and killed more than 30 of them, including nine commanders. He said large number of fighters had gathered in the area to hold a military parade.
The Taliban said in a statement that the airstrike hit a madrassa, or Islamic religious school, killing and wounding more than 100 clerics, religious students and other civilians.
ISLAMABAD —  The United States has placed a Pakistani political group called the Milli Muslim League (MML) on its list of foreign terrorist organisations, saying it was merely an alias for a militant group blamed for a bloody 2008 attack in India.
The Milli Muslim League is controlled by Islamist leader Hafiz Saeed, who has a $10 million U.S. bounty on his head. The group shot to prominence after fielding a candidate in a September 2017 by-election to fill a seat vacated by deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif.
Saeed is the founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), or Army of the Pure, which is also on the U.S. terrorist list and blamed by the United States and India for a four-day militant attack on the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008 in which 166 people were killed.
Saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the attack.
The U.S. State Department said the Milli Muslim League alias had been added to the LeT's designations as a terrorist group.
"These designations seek to deny LeT the resources it needs to plan and carry out further terrorist attacks," the State Department said in a statement.
"Make no mistake: whatever LeT chooses to call itself, it remains a violent terrorist group. The United States supports all efforts to ensure that LeT does not have a political voice until it gives up violence as a tool of influence," it added.
Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to request for comment.
Saeed was placed under house arrest in January 2017 after years of living freely in Pakistan but a court ordered his release in November 2017.
He was not available for comment on Tuesday.
India welcomed the U.S. decision saying Pakistan has failed to crack down on militants.
"Terrorist individuals and entities are allowed to change names and continue to operate freely from territory under Pakistan's control," an Indian foreign office spokesman said in New Delhi.
"The designation ... highlights Pakistan's failure to fulfil its international obligation to dismantle terrorist sanctuaries, and disrupt terror financing," he added.
Pakistan has previously denied any state involvement in the Mumbai attack or links with LeT and other militant groups. It placed the LeT on a list of banned organizations in 2002.
In October 2017, Pakistan's electoral commission barred the Milli Muslim League from contesting elections, saying it had links to militant groups and could not be registered.
In March 2018 the Islamabad High Court ordered the election commission to register the party.
Under pressure from the United States, the United Nations and international institutions to crack down on terrorist financing, Pakistan drew up secret plans last December for a "takeover" of charities linked to Saeed.
Saeed has since taken the government decision to court.
Saeed's freedom in Pakistan, where he holds rallies, has been a thorn in Pakistan's relations with old rival India and the United States.
(Additional reporting by Sanjeev Miglani in New Delhi; Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Michael Perry, Robert Birsel)
BALTIMORE —  Baltimore Police Commissioner Darryl De Sousa says he'll soon name an independent review board to investigate the unsolved death of a Baltimore police detective.
News outlets report De Sousa told reporters at a news conference Wednesday that he's close to signing the agreement with the six-member panel, which will be led by two former Baltimore police detectives. More than four months have passed since Detective Sean Suiter was killed in an on-duty attack just a day before he was to testify in a police corruption case.
De Sousa says the panel will consist of outside police leaders with a combined "220 years of law enforcement experience." He says they will be asked to develop findings and recommendations in the case.
He did not offer further details.
PARIS —  Russia will expel four members of the French embassy in Russia, the French foreign ministry said in a statement on Friday.
Earlier on Friday, the Russian foreign ministry expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries in a standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury, Britain .
On Monday, France had expelled four Russian diplomats from France in a show of solidarity with Britain over the poisoning.
"Russia's decision to expel four French embassy staff from Russia does not surprise us. We regret this and want to point out that to this day Russia has refused to give any explanation about the attack in Salisbury," the ministry said.
(Reporting by Geert De Clercq, editing by Larry King)
WASHINGTON —  The White House is calling on Yemen's Houthi rebels to "cease further escalation," after a Saudi-led coalition battling the rebels said they attacked a Saudi oil tanker.
Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement Wednesday that the United States is "very concerned about the Houthis' latest attempt to escalate the war in Yemen."
Yemen's Houthi rebels attacked a Saudi oil tanker in the Red Sea on Tuesday, causing "minor damage" to the ship, the Saudi-led coalition battling the rebels said. The attack occurred in international waters west of the port of Hodeida in Yemen, which is under Houthi control.
Sanders said: "We call on the Houthis to cease further escalation and demonstrate their commitment to a peace process by engaging in constructive dialogue."
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria —  A Boko Haram attack in the Nigerian city of Maiduguri killed at least 15 people and wounded 83, a military spokesman said on Monday, in the biggest strike since the government said it was in talks with the Islamist militant group.
The military said the incident occurred late on Sunday and included gun battles between government troops and the militants as they tried to enter Maiduguri, a city in northeast Nigeria which is the epicentre of a nine-year conflict with Boko Harm that has caused the deaths of more than 20,000 people.
President Muhammadu Buhari has prioritized improving security and has previously declared the defeat of Boko Haram, which is trying to establish an Islamic state and which split into two factions in 2016.
The military said troops clashed with the jihadists in a cashew plantation around Bille Shuwa and Alikaranti villages, near Giwa barracks on the edge of Maiduguri's inner city, at around 08:10 p.m. (1910 GMT) on Sunday and fought gun battles with government troops during which multiple blasts were heard.
"Fifteen persons including a soldier have so far been confirmed dead in the encounter, while about 83 persons who suffered varying degrees of injuries are receiving due medical attention," said army spokesman Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu.
He said 13 insurgents had been killed, including seven bombers, adding that the retreating militants attacked locals.
"It is clear that the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists are hell-bent on remaining relevant by attacking soft and vulnerable targets," Nwachukwu added.
TALKS
It is the most significant attack on the city since the government said last week it was in talks with the insurgents with the aim of securing a permanent ceasefire.
The government has not disclosed which elements of Boko Haram it is in discussions with and it was also not clear which faction carried out Sunday's attack.
The government has been saying since December 2015 that the jihadist group has been defeated but high-profile attacks in the last few months - including the kidnap of 111 schoolgirls from the town of Dapchi and a strike in the town of Rann that killed three aid workers - has shown the jihadists remain active.
All but one of the girls taken from Dapchi, in Yobe state, on Feb. 19 were returned by the militants in March. The government later said it had negotiated their release as part of broader talks.
In early 2015 Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land in northeast Nigeria around the size of Belgium but was forced out of most of that territory by the army with the support of troops from neighbouring countries.
Since then the group has continued to carry out suicide bombings, gun raids and kidnappings in northeastern Nigeria as well as in neighbouring Cameroon, Niger and Chad.
(Additional reporting by Kolowale Adewale; Writing by Alexis Akwagyiram; editing by Gareth Jones)
THE HAGUE —  Russia's call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England failed on Wednesday when it was outvoted 15-6 at a meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog.
Russia had called an emergency meeting of the decision-making executive of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to counter accusations by Britain that it was behind the March 4 nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England.
UK's security services believe they have pinpointed the location of Russian laboratory that manufactured the nerve agent Novichok used in Salisbury attack, The Times reported on Wednesday. Britain was aware of the existence of the site before  March 4, the report said.
It cited an unidentified security source as saying they have a "high degree of confidence in the location".
Britain's charges of Russian involvement, strongly denied by Moscow, have triggered mass expulsions of diplomats by both Britain's allies in the West, including the United States, and similar retaliatory action by Russia.
When the meeting convened on Wednesday, Russia proposed a joint investigation into the poisoning as it was not invited to participate in an independent probe being carried out by the OPCW at Britain's request, results of which are due next week.
Britain called the Russian proposal for a joint investigation a "perverse" attempt to escape blame for the poisoning of the Skripals, and part of a disinformation campaign mounted by Moscow.
Russia's proposal in the end drew support from China, Azerbaijan, Sudan, Algeria and Iran, a source told Reuters, with U.S. and European members voting against the plan. There were 17 abstentions among members of the organisation's 41-member council, only 38 of whose members were present and eligible to vote on Wednesday.
Russia's ambassador to the OPCW, Aleksander Shulgin, confirmed that the vote had been lost.
RUSSIA CALL TO SECURITY COUNCIL
Separately on Wednesday, Russia requested a public meeting of the United Nations Security Council on April 5 to discuss the British accusations against Moscow, Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said.
British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson welcomed Russia's defeat.
"Russia has had one goal in mind since the attempted murders on UK soil through the use of a military-grade chemical weapon - to obscure the truth and confuse the public," he said in a statement.
"The international community has yet again seen through these tactics and robustly defeated Russia’s attempts today to derail the proper international process."
The closed-door OPCW meeting itself triggered sharp verbal exchanges between the Britain and Russia's representatives.
In a tweet, the British delegation called Moscow's idea for a joint investigation "a diversionary tactic, and yet more disinformation designed to evade the questions the Russians authorities must answer".
John Foggo, Britain's acting envoy, said Russian assertions that the attack may have been carried out by Britain, the United States or Sweden were "shameless, preposterous statements".
Shulgin, at a news conference, said the vote showed more than half of the OPCW's members had "refused to associate themselves with the West's point of view" - referring to those who voted in favour of Russia's proposal or abstained.
He repeated that Russia had had nothing to do with the attack on the Skripals, which he said looked like "a terrorist attack."
Britain's remarks were "a dirty flow of complete lies ... outright Russia-phobia," he said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday the OPCW should draw a line under a case that has triggered the worst crisis in East-West relations since the Cold War.
Scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory in England have concluded that the toxin was among a category of Soviet-era nerve agents called Novichok, though could not yet determine whether it was made in Russia.
TAKING SAMPLES
The OPCW, which oversees the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention, has taken samples from the site of the Salisbury attack and is expected to provide results from testing at two designated laboratories next week.
Shulgin said earlier that if Moscow was prevented from taking part in the testing of the Salisbury toxin samples, it would reject the outcome of the OPCW research.
Russia's request to open a parallel, joint Russian-British inquiry has been portrayed by Western powers as an attempt to undermine the investigation by OPCW scientists.
The EU said it was very concerned Moscow was considering rejecting the OPCW findings.
Instead of cooperating with the OPCW, Russia had unleashed "a flood of insinuations targeting EU member states ... This is completely unacceptable," an EU statement read to the council session said.
Skripal, 66, a former Russian military intelligence officer who betrayed scores of Russian agents to Britain and was exchanged in a Russia-West spy swap, remains in a critical but stable condition. His daughter, Yulia, 33, has shown signs of improvement.
(Reporting by Anthony Deutsch in The Hague; Additional reporting by Toby Sterling in Amsterdam and William Schomberg in London; editing by Richard Balmforth and Grant McCool)
BALTIMORE —  A Maryland man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for terrorism financing and conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State.
The U.S. Department of Justice says Mohamed Elshinawy of the Edgewater suburb pledged allegiance to the Islamic State and received $8,700 to carry out a future attack in the United States.
The Pittsburgh-born Elshinawy was a 7-Eleven employee and newspaper deliveryman when he came on the FBI's radar.
Investigators say much of the money he received came from a United Kingdom-based electronics company run by Siful Sujan, an ISIS hacker who coordinated anti-surveillance technology and weapons development and was killed in December 2015 airstrikes.
Elshinawy was sentenced Friday by U.S. District Judge Ellen Hollander. The 32-year-old faces 15 years of supervised release.
PARIS —  Russia will expel four members of the French embassy in Russia, the French foreign ministry said in a statement on Friday.
Earlier on Friday, the Russian foreign ministry expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries in a standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury, Britain .
On Monday, France had expelled four Russian diplomats from France in a show of solidarity with Britain over the poisoning.
"Russia's decision to expel four French embassy staff from Russia does not surprise us. We regret this and want to point out that to this day Russia has refused to give any explanation about the attack in Salisbury," the ministry said.
(Reporting by Geert De Clercq, editing by Larry King)
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. —  A New Jersey man who strangled his mother to death at their home during a Thanksgiving holiday weekend has been sentenced to 25 years in prison.
Frank Polera will have to serve about 21 years before becoming eligible for parole under the sentence imposed Thursday. He initially was charged with murder in the November 2016 death of 61-year-old Patricia Polera, but eventually pleaded guilty in January to aggravated manslaughter.
Patricia Polera was found dead in the family's Old Bridge home. An autopsy showed she had died from asphyxiation by compression.
Authorities say the 31-year-old Polera initially claimed his mother had fallen out of bed. They have not disclosed a motive for the attack.
SCARBOROUGH, Maine —  Police say a newspaper carrier in Maine stumbled upon a man's dead, nude body in the middle of a street.
The Portland Press Herald reports the body was found in Scarborough early Sunday. Police Chief Robby Moulton says the man was in his 60s and was only wearing socks and slippers.
Police said Tuesday the man died of a heart attack. They have not said why he was nude.
Moulton says the man lived with his father near Maine Medical Center's Scarborough campus, and his father was not home when the body was found.
The man's identity has not been released.
The body has been transported to Augusta for an autopsy.
___
This story has been corrected to show the body was found Sunday, not Monday.
___
Information from: Portland Press Herald, http://www.pressherald.com
PARIS —  Russia will expel four members of the French embassy in Russia, the French foreign ministry said in a statement on Friday.
Earlier on Friday, the Russian foreign ministry expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries in a standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury, Britain .
On Monday, France had expelled four Russian diplomats from France in a show of solidarity with Britain over the poisoning.
"Russia's decision to expel four French embassy staff from Russia does not surprise us. We regret this and want to point out that to this day Russia has refused to give any explanation about the attack in Salisbury," the ministry said.
(Reporting by Geert De Clercq, editing by Larry King)
SOFIA —  Bulgaria needs more time to decide whether to follow NATO and EU allies in expelling Russian diplomats over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy, its deputy prime minister said on Thursday.
Bulgaria, current holder of the European Union's presidency, recalled its ambassador from Moscow after the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in England in the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two.
But it has stopped short of following most EU members and allies in NATO, including the United States, which have expelled dozens of Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain over the March 4 attack.
"The political situation in Bulgaria is such that these types of decisions have to be taken by consensus," deputy prime minister Tomislav Donchev told Reuters in an interview.
"At the moment, for good or bad, there is no such consensus," he said.
The diplomatic standoff between the West and Russia has struck a raw nerve in Bulgaria, where one of the junior partners in the coalition government and also the opposition Socialists, favour pursuing good ties with Russia.
On Friday Prime Minister Boyko Borissov said the government has expressed its solidarity with its EU and NATO allies, but would not expel Russian diplomats for now as it needed to keep dialogue open with Moscow as an EU chair.
Bulgarian deputy foreign minister Juri Sterk met the Russian envoy to Sofia on Friday and expressed Sofia's serious concerns over the reports of a possible link of persons and organisations from Russia and the use of a nerve agent in England.
Separately, further highlighting the sensitivity of the issue for the coalition, the government issued a statement saying Donchev had not made any "assessments" about the government's stance regarding the parties to the Skripal case.
"BARBARIC" ATTACK
Bulgaria, which was liberated from Ottoman Turkish rule by Russia, became one of the most obedient Soviet satellite states during the Cold War. Many Bulgarians feel a strong cultural affinity for Russia, with which they share the Cyrillic script and Orthodox Christianity.
This legacy translates into a coalition government in which the centre-right GERB party shares power with three smaller nationalist parties which to varying degrees support better ties with Russia and argue that Bulgaria should take a balanced position over the Skripal case.
They have opposed a call by a senior GERB official for Bulgaria to follow the lead of its allies and expel Russian diplomats.
Both President Rumen Radev and the biggest opposition party, the Socialists, are also insisting that more concrete proof is needed of Russian involvement in the Skripal poisoning.
"I categorically think these (calls for Bulgaria to expel  Russian diplomats) are a mistake," said Volen Siderov, leader of the pro-Russian, nationalist Attack party, one of GERB's junior coalition partners.
"We have one unclear case. We have no evidence of Russia's participation," he said in a statement.
Donchev said in his interview that any action undertaken by Bulgaria would be seen as a signal of solidarity with Britain and its allies and also as a signal to Russia.
Touching on the domestic political situation, he said: "Taking into account that our government is a coalition... I am not convinced that such a decision can be taken so easily and so quickly."
Donchev said Bulgaria would wait for a report from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, adding that Sofia was monitoring developments closely.
"What happened in Great Britain is ... unacceptable. It is barbaric, it is a chemical weapon, it is a military toxic substance," Donchev said.
Referring to Bulgaria's history of close ties with Russia, Donchev said: "This is an undeniable fact. History, though, is sometimes a good, and sometimes a bad, teacher in politics."
(Additional reporting by Angel Krasimirov; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Gareth Jones)
LONDON —  Former England captain Ray Wilkins is in a critical condition in a London hospital following a heart attack.
"Ray Wilkins is currently being treated at St George’s Hospital, and his condition is critical," the hospital said on its official twitter feed on Saturday.
"His family have asked for privacy at this time, and we are tweeting this update with their agreement."
His wife was quoted as saying he had suffered a cardiac arrest and had to be put in an induced coma.
The 61 year-old Wilkins won 84 caps for England between 1976 and 1986.
He played more than 150 times for each of Chelsea, Manchester United and Queen's Park Rangers, with shorter spells abroad for AC Milan and Paris Saint-Germain.
In a 20-year coaching career he was manager of QPR, Fulham and the Jordan national team, and assistant manager in two spells at Chelsea.
(Reporting by Steve Tongue; editing by Ken Ferris)
WASHINGTON —  The United States plans additional responses to Russian activities that will include a number of steps to defend November congressional elections against meddling from Moscow, the top U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday.
Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the United States would take more actions in response to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England as well as "the entire range of malign Russian activities."
U.S. President Donald Trump last month ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States and closed the Russian consulate in Seattle in response to a March 4 attack on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia with a military-grade nerve agent.
Moscow has denied responsibility for the attack and has retaliated with its own expulsions.
At a breakfast with reporters, Coats was asked whether Washington would take action beyond kicking out the 60 diplomats.
"This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done, and soon, above where we are right now," Coats said. "I would just stay tuned on that. I think we are more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."
U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election to sway the vote to Trump. A federal special counsel is investigating potential collusion by the Trump campaign with Moscow.
(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Franklin Paul and Bill Trott)
KABUL, Afghanistan —  A suicide bomber killed a provincial council member in northeast Kunar province, while a daylong gun battle in neighboring Badakhshan province left four civilians dead and another eight wounded, Afghan officials said Friday.
Kunar provincial council member Shahwali Hemat was on his way to a local cemetery to attend a funeral Friday when a suicide bomber approached him and exploded his device, Kunar Police Chief spokesman Farid Dihqan told The Associated Press. A second person was also killed in the explosion and another one was wounded. No one immediately took responsibility for the attack, but the Taliban are active in Kunar province.
Also hiding in Kunar province's towering mountains are members of Pakistan's militant Tehrik-e-Taliban, who fled a Pakistan military operation in the Swat Valley and found refuge in Kunar's rugged terrain. Among the Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan's Kunar province is Mullah Fazlullah, the Taliban leader who is believed to have masterminded the attack on Pakistan's Malala Yousafzai, the young Nobel laureate and champion of girls' education worldwide. Yousafzai is in Pakistan on her first visit home since the shooting in 2012.
Pakistan and Afghanistan routinely accuse each other of harboring the other's militant enemies.
Also on Friday, Asadullah Mujadedi, a district police chief in northern Badakhshan Province, said four civilians were killed and another eight wounded during a gun battle between Afghan security forces and the Taliban.
Mujadedi said the battle broke out after security forces launched a clean-up operation in Badakhshan's Jurm district.
Armed with mortars and machine guns, the Taliban fired from inside houses in a blistering battle that lasted throughout the day Thursday.
A statement from the Taliban on Friday claimed significantly more civilians were killed in the firefight and blamed the government for their deaths.
KOBANI, Syria —  A roadside bomb in northern Syria killed two coalition personnel, an American and a Briton, and wounded five others in a rare attack since the U.S.-led coalition sent troops into the war-torn country, the U.S. and British militaries and a U.S. defense official said Friday.
The military did not say where the attack took place or give the nationalities of the other casualties but it came hours after a local Syrian official said that a roadside bomb exploded in the tense, mixed Arab-Kurdish town of Manbij that is not far from the border with Turkey.
Manbij is under threat of a Turkish military operation. Ankara says Syrian Kurdish militiamen it views as "terrorists" and an extension of Kurdish insurgents inside Turkey are in control of the town.
The U.S. military statement said the attack happened Thursday night and that the wounded were being evacuated for further medical treatment. The statement said details were being withheld pending further investigation.
A Department of Defense official in Washington said one of the two killed was an American service member and the other was of another nationality.
No other information about the deceased American was immediately available. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because details had not yet been publicly released.
A U.K. defense ministry spokesman said the British armed forces member was killed during an operation against the Islamic State group. The spokesman added that an improvised explosive device killed the service member who was embedded with U.S. forces on Thursday.
No details on the casualty's service branch, unit or gender were immediately provided.
The U.S. military member killed was the fourth American who has died in Syria since the U.S. began attacking Islamic State militants there in September 2014, according to the Pentagon's Defense Casualty Analysis System.
Of the three previous deaths, Air Force Staff Sgt. Austin Bieren was specifically labeled by the Pentagon as a non-combat death. Another, Navy Senior Chief Petty Officer Scott C. Dayton, was killed by an improved explosive device. The third, Army Spc. Etienne J. Murphy, died in a vehicle rollover.
Earlier on Friday, U.S. military spokesman Col. Ryan Dillon couldn't immediately say who was behind the attack.
"There is an investigation under way to identify who they could possibly be. We have our initial assessment and thoughts on that but we won't provide until the investigation is complete," he said.
Dillon declined to give the nationalities of the dead and wounded as well as the location of the attack until next of kin notification.
Dillon said the coalition has had fatalities in Syria before. "Perhaps by different means but there have been coalition deaths in Syria over the course of three years."
Mohammed Abu Adel, head of the Manbij Military Council, an Arab-Kurdish group in the town backed by the U.S., said the bomb went off hundreds of meters (yards) from a security headquarters that houses the council just before midnight on Thursday.
Earlier on Friday, Dillon said an incident involving coalition forces was reported in Manbij but said no more information was available.
The town has seen a number of small explosions, protests and an assassination attempt on a member of the Manbij military council in recent weeks. Local officials blame Turkey and other adversaries for seeking to sow chaos in the town that was controlled by Islamic State group militants until the summer of 2016.
The military council has since been in control and U.S. troops patrol the town and area with troops based nearby.
Meanwhile, near the capital Damascus, there were conflicting reports on whether a main rebel group will evacuate the largest and last rebel-held town in the area, known as eastern Ghouta.
Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoi of the Russian military's General Staff said at a Friday briefing that the agreement envisages Army of Islam rebels and their families leaving the Syrian town of Douma, just outside of Damascus.
The announcement came after the Syrian government on Wednesday issued a three-day ultimatum to the Army of Islam group to leave Douma or face an all-out offensive.
Syrian state TV said an agreement is about to be reached for an Army of Islam evacuation but the group denied the reports.
Army of Islam military spokesman Hamza Bayraqdar told The Associated Press that the reports are false, adding that his group's stance is to reject displacement and demographic change in eastern Ghouta.
The Syrian government and the Russian military backing it have demanded that Army of Islam members leave the area for northern Syria, following other rebels who left eastern Ghouta.
The Syrian Arab Red Crescent said Friday one of its convoys entered three towns in eastern Ghouta bringing badly needed food supplies to residents after opposition fighters left the area.
SARC said it entered the towns of Saqba, Kafr Batna and Ein Tarma in eastern Ghouta with mobile water tank, mobile clinic and relief aid convoy of 16 trucks loaded with 8,500 bread bags, 5,000 food parcels, water bottles and nutrition items. It said the supplies were provided by International Committee of the Red Cross and the World Food Program.
Rudskoi said over 143,000 people, including 13,793 rebels and 23,544 members of their families have left eastern Ghouta. He also said some 40,000 residents have returned to their homes in eastern Ghouta as there has been no fighting over the last seven days.
___
Burns reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow and Bassem Mroue in Beirut contributed to this report.
MOSCOW —  The latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter (all times local):
1:00 a.m.
Russia's envoy to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons says that although Moscow's proposal for a joint investigation with Britain was rejected, the number of countries that abstained from the vote shows widespread uneasiness with Britain.
Russia called for a session of the watchdog's executive council on Wednesday to further its adamant denials of Britain's allegation that Russia was involved in the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter.
A Russian proposal to conduct a joint investigation with Britain was defeated, getting only six votes from the 41-member executive body.
But envoy Alexander Shulgin noted that 17 countries abstained, meaning that "more than half of the members of the executive council refused to support the U.S. and U.K. position."
The United States expelled 60 Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain in the poisoning controversy.
___
12:20 a.m.
Britain says Russia's proposal for a joint investigation of the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter got only six votes at a special session of the executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
Russia requested the Wednesday session in The Hague, Netherlands, to push its vehement denials of Britain's allegation that Russia was involved in the March 4 poisonings in England. There are 41 countries on the OPCW's executive council.
The British government has invited experts from the international chemical weapons watchdog to help investigate the March 4 poisonings of Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called Russia's bid to take part "ludicrous."
Johnson said: "The purpose of Russia's ludicrous proposal at The Hague was clear — - to undermine the independent, impartial work of the international chemical weapons watchdog." British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said in a statement. "
"Russia has had one goal in mind since the attempted murders on U.K. soil through the use of a military-grade chemical weapon: to obscure the truth and confuse the public."
___
12:10 a.m.
Russia's Foreign Ministry wants Britain to provide information about the pets that lived in the house of the Russian former spy who was poisoned with nerve agent in England a month ago.
Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Wednesday that Russia has reliable information that there were pets in the Salisbury residence of Sergei Skripal.
"Where are the pets? What is their condition?" she said. "This is about living creatures, and if a toxic chemical agent was indeed used in their house, these living creatures should have been hurt."
It is not clear where Skripal and his daughter were exposed to the poison, which Britain has identified as a nerve agent of the Novichok class. Novichok was developed as a chemical weapon in the Soviet Union, and Britain has alleged Russia was involved in the poisoning.
___
9 p.m.
Russia's U.N. ambassador has called for an open meeting of the U.N. Security Council Thursday on the poisoning of a former spy and his daughter in Britain.
Vassily Nebenzia made the request at the end of his speech Wednesday to a council meeting on chemical weapons in Syria.
Nebenzia said Russia requested the council meeting because it shares the principle that the use of chemical weapons anywhere "is not acceptable and must be investigated and perpetrators punished, and that impunity is unacceptable."
Kuwait's U.N. Ambassador Mansour Al-Otaibi told reporters the meeting is scheduled at 3 p.m. EDT on Thursday.
Nebenzia's request follows a meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Wednesday requested by Russia on the incident in the English city of Salisbury.
___
8:40 p.m.
Russia's envoy to the international chemical weapons watchdog has complained that Britain's work with the agency on the poisoning of a former spy has not been transparent.
Alexander Shulgin told a news conference Wednesday that "Russia as well as other states that are members of the executive committee have been pushed aside from this investigation."
He spoke after a special session of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons called by Russia, which vehemently denies Britain's allegations that Moscow was responsible for the nerve-agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter.
The two were found poisoned in the British city of Salisbury a month ago.
"They tell us that they can inform us of the results of this investigation ... only with the good will of Great Britain," Shulgin said. "But, knowing how our so-called partners have conducted themselves, we are not going to count on their good will."
___
7 p.m.
A senior Russian diplomat says a probe into the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain should involve a panel of independent experts.
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov says that Moscow has suggested that the international chemical weapons watchdog set up a group of independent experts to look into the case.
Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia has fervently denied its involvement and pushed Britain to provide evidence to back up its claim.
Ryabkov told the Tass news agency Wednesday that the refusal by Britain and its allies to have an independent probe would signal their "intention to sacrifice the truth for the sake of their geopolitical ambitions."
___
4:30 p.m.
President Vladimir Putin says Russia expects Britain and its allies to respect international law to end the simmering diplomatic crisis.
Asked Wednesday if Moscow expects Britain to retract its accusations against Russia over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy and offer an apology, Putin said Wednesday that Russia has no such expectations but hopes that "reason will prevail."
Britain blamed Russia for the poisoning of former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, accusations which Russia has fervently denied. More than two dozen Western allies have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain, and Russia responded quid pro quo.
Putin said on a visit to Ankara he hopes Britain and its allies will refrain from actions damaging international relations and return to the framework of international law.
____
4 p.m.
The British government is under pressure to reveal more details of its intelligence on the Salisbury nerve agent poisoning, after the country's defense research lab said it has not been able to pinpoint the precise source of the poison.
The chief executive of the Porton Down laboratory, Gary Aitkenhead, says scientists there have identified the substance used on Sergei and Yulia Skripal as a Soviet-developed nerve agent known as Novichok. But he said Tuesday that "it's not our job to say where that was actually manufactured."
The British government says it relied on a combination of scientific analysis and other intelligence to conclude that the nerve agent came from Russia. Russia denies responsibility, and has seized on Aitkenhead's remarks to support its case.
Britain is standing by its assessment, but the Foreign Office on Wednesday deleted a tweet from last month saying Porton Down scientists had identified the substance as "made in Russia."
____
3:30 p.m.
Russia's Foreign Ministry says it is expelling one Hungarian diplomat after Hungary joined other Western nations in kicking out Russian diplomats.
The United States and many European countries last week expelled a total of over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain, which accuses Russia of being behind the nerve agent poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter last month.
Hungary said last week that it was expelling one Russian diplomat who was carrying out intelligence activities.
The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that it has summoned the Hungarian ambassador to Moscow and informed him of Russia's decision to expel one diplomat from the Hungarian embassy.
____
3:15 p.m.
Britain is rejecting any possibility of having a joint investigation involving Russia into the nerve agent attack in England's Salisbury last month.
The British envoy to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons told the executive council of the watchdog on Wednesday that there is no requirement in the body's convention that would force a victim "to engage the likely perpetrator in a joint investigation."
Acting U.K. Permanent Representative John Foggo said that "to do so would be perverse."
Russia had called for a special meeting of the OPCW's executive council on Wednesday to access developments in the March 4 nerve agent attack in Salisbury.
___
1:50 p.m.
The British delegation at an international meeting says Russia is asking for a joint probe into last month's Salisbury nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and dismissed the offer as "perverse."
During a special meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the British delegation called the offer for a UK-Russian investigation "a diversionary tactic, and yet more disinformation designed to evade the questions the Russian authorities must answer."
The special council meeting in The Hague was requested by Russia a month after the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.
____
1:15 p.m.
Russia's Ambassador to the Czech Republic says his country is set to propose a solution to the crisis over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy at an emergency meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
Talking to reporters at the Russian embassy in Prague, Alexander Zmeyevskiy says Russia will propose "a civilized solution to the problem" but declined to give any details.
The closed-door meeting of the OPCW started Wednesday morning.
Zmeyevskiy also says his country is not blaming the Czech Republic for being involved in the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury.
Russian officials previously suggested the nerve agent used for the attack may have originated in the Czech Republic, Sweden and Slovakia. Acting Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis called it a lie.
The Czechs expelled three Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain.
____
12:30 p.m.
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is holding an emergency meeting at Russia's request on last month's nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.
Russia has said that it will push Britain to provide evidence they might have in their hands about the attack in the English city of Salisbury on March 4 which left former double agent Sergei Skripal in critical condition. His daughter, Yulia, is recovering.
The OPCW said the closed-door meeting in The Hague, Netherlands, started in the morning. The Russian delegation plans to brief the media late Wednesday.
Britain's Foreign Office said the move by Moscow to call for the meeting was a "diversionary tactic, intended to undermine the work of the OPCW in reaching a conclusion" about the nerve agent attack.
____
11 a.m.
Russia's spymaster says the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy and his daughter in Britain was staged by U.K. and U.S. intelligence agencies.
Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, the top KGB successor agency, said the March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."
Speaking Wednesday at an international security conference organized by the Russian Defense Ministry, Naryshkin said the poisoning was the latest U.S. effort to undermine Russia and was akin to its practices during the Cold War.
Britain has blamed Russia for the nerve agent attack, an accusation that Russia has vehemently denied. Consequently, relations between the West and Russia are at their lowest ebb since the Cold War.
BERLIN —  German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas wants to resume dialogue with Russia and gradually improve ties after diplomatic expulsions over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in England that Britain blames on Russia, he said on Sunday.
Conservative German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Maas have joined the United States and other European countries in standing with Britain in a major standoff over the attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter.
Maas, a member of the Social Democrats (SPD) who are split on how tough to be on Moscow, told Bild am Sonntag much trust had been lost in the last few years due to Russia's behavior.
"At the same time, we need Russia as a partner to settle  regional conflicts, for disarmament and as an important pillar of multilateralism," he was quoted as saying in the paper.
"We are therefore open for dialogue and are trying to rebuild trust bit by bit if Russia is ready."
He also, however, defended the decision to expel diplomats.  "to show solidarity with Britain but also as a signal of unity".
In the last week, as part of mass expulsions on both sides, Germany expelled four Russian diplomats and Moscow has reciprocated with the same number, prompting talk of a crisis in relations between Russia and the West.
Some Social Democrats have urged the 'grand coalition' of their party and Merkel's conservatives to ensure a new Cold War does not start, and business groups are also worried.
Germany relies on Russia for roughly a third of the gas it uses and, before Western states imposed sanctions on Russia over its role in the Ukraine crisis, Europe's biggest economy exported about 38 billion euros of goods to Russia.
London accuses Moscow of being responsible for the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two and Germany has repeatedly called on Moscow to cooperate more with the investigations.
(Reporting by Madeline Chambers; Editing by Mark Potter)
KABUL, Afghanistan — Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious gathering in the northern province of Kunduz on Monday, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others, according to a local official in the area.
The official, Nasruddin Saadi, district governor of Dasht-e-Archi, said that the helicopters attacked a religious ceremony for which about 1,000 people had assembled in a mosque and surrounding fields around noon.
Witnesses reached by telephone said that the mosque was also a madrasa, or religious school, and that members of the Taliban had been present at the assembly, which had been organized to recognize graduates, appoint mullahs and elevate junior mullahs.
Mr. Saadi also said that the event was religious in nature and that the security forces had decided to attack because armed militants were in attendance.
However, Brig. Gen. Mohammad Radmanish, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry denied that the gathering had been for religious purposes. “The Taliban and other insurgent groups were planning to attack Afghan forces, but their plan was discovered by our forces,” he said.
“During the attack by our helicopters, 21 terrorists, including a Taliban commander, have been killed,” he added. “It isn’t a residential area, and only terrorists and the Taliban were active in the place. There wasn’t any civilian in the area.”
Nonetheless, witnesses said that children and other civilians were among the victims.
The district of Dasht-e-Archi is a Taliban stronghold that has often been the scene of heavy fighting. In May, an American drone strike in the district killed Mullah Abdul Salam, the Taliban “shadow governor” of Kunduz.
In 2016, an Afghan airstrike killed another  prominent Taliban commander, Mawlavi Muawiyah, in Dasht-e-Archi, along with 21 other fighters, according to the military. American airstrikes in the area have repeatedly been blamed for civilian casualties, and Afghan forces are increasingly taking over air operations there.
A 40-year-old farmer from the district, who gave his name only as Mohammad, said that there had been a small number of armed Taliban fighters among the crowd at the assembly, but that most of the attendees were civilians, including madrasa students and graduates. He said that many children had been present, and that the first rockets fired by the helicopters had hit a group of youngsters. The farmer was unable to say how many had been killed or hurt, but added that one of the wounded was his nephew, age 10.
“Children come to any gathering where there is a free lunch,” he said.
A spokesman for the Taliban, Zabihullah Mujahid, said that the death toll was far higher than the official figure and that no insurgents had been present at the gathering, which was strictly religious in nature. Many Taliban commanders are also mullahs.
“Bombing civilians and then calling them mujahedeen is a habit of the Americans and their slaves,” Mr. Mujahid said, adding that 150 people had died in the military strike. “Those responsible for killing civilians and insulting religion will be brought to justice.”
AL MUKALLA, Yemen — Houthi rebels in Yemen hit a Saudi Arabian oil tanker with a missile on Tuesday, an attack that could escalate the three-year-old conflict even as the leader of the United Nations expressed optimism about renewed diplomacy to end it.
In a statement carried on Al Mayadeen television in Yemen, the Houthis said the missile strike avenged the Yemeni civilians killed Monday in a Saudi aerial assault on Al Hudaydah, the only Yemeni seaport controlled by the rebels. At least 14 people, including children, were killed after they ventured outside their residential building to get some fresh air in the stifling midmorning heat, witnesses said.
The Saudi-led military coalition, which has been bombing the Houthis and their allies since March 2015, has said its attack on Al Hudaydah struck military targets.
The Houthis have no air force. But they have enraged the Saudis by repeatedly firing missiles into Saudi Arabia, most notably a seven-missile barrage launched late last month. The Saudis claim that the weapons are supplied by Iran, Saudi Arabia’s regional rival. Iran denies it.
Saudi Arabia confirmed that the oil tanker, which was not identified by name, was attacked by the “Iran-backed Houthis” in the early afternoon.
The tanker was in international waters west of Al Hudaydah, according to a statement by the Saudi coalition spokesman, Col. Turki al-Malki. He did not disclose the extent of the damage but called the assault “a serious threat to the maritime navigation and international trade” in the region.
The spokesman also said a Saudi-coalition warship had escorted the tanker from the area, but he hinted that the stricken vessel might be leaking fuel, saying the attack created the risk of “environmental and economical damage.”
The Houthis control nearly 200 miles of Yemen’s Red Sea coastline, which includes Al Hudaydah, a critical entry point for humanitarian aid. The Saudis have severely limited shipping traffic to the port during the conflict.
There were fears that the missile strike on Tuesday could lead to a tighter Saudi clampdown on Al Hudaydah’s port.
The escalation came against the backdrop of an intense fund-raising effort by the United Nations to help civilians in Yemen, which the organization has called the world’s worst man-made humanitarian disaster.
More than 22 million of Yemen’s 27 million people need emergency aid, nearly 18 million have little or no food, more than one million have been sickened by cholera and more than two million have been displaced from their homes, the United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday on Twitter.
Secretary General António Guterres of the United Nations, who attended a donor conference for Yemen relief in Geneva on Tuesday, said that more than $2 billion had been raised — about half from Saudi Arabia.
Asked at a news conference if he saw a contradiction in aid money donated by a country “to repair what it is destroying,” Mr. Guterres sought to answer diplomatically.
“Well, we all know that there is a war, we all know who are the parties to the war, but the two things need to be seen separately,” he told reporters.
Mr. Guterres also said his special envoy for the Yemen conflict, Martin Griffiths, who recently visited Saudi Arabia and Yemen, had come away “very encouraged” and was now visiting other countries in the region in hopes of establishing a dialogue for talks. “I am optimistic about that possibility,” he said.
ORLANDO, Fla. —  The widow of the Pulse nightclub gunman walked free on Friday after a jury cleared her of charges related to the 2016 massacre that killed 49 people in Orlando, stunning survivors who had longed to hold someone accountable.
Noor Salman, 31, could have faced up to life in prison had she been convicted of federal charges of obstruction of justice and aiding her husband, Omar Mateen, in providing support to the Islamic State militant group.
Instead, the U.S. District Court jury in Orlando acquitted Salman after roughly 12 hours of deliberation that began on Wednesday. Hours later, she walked out of Orange County jail, her head bowed as she held hands with defense lawyer Fritz Scheller.
"We just relived the whole thing all over again," said India Godman, who was in the nightclub when shots rang out, killing 14 of her friends.
Salman was home with the couple's then 3-year-old son at the time of the rampage on June 12, 2016. Mateen died in an exchange of gunfire with police at Pulse, a gay nightspot.
The acquittal was an emotional blow for the survivors and families of those killed. The attack stunned and dismayed lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and Latinos who frequented Pulse.
Godman was among several survivors and their supporters who gathered outside Pulse, about 2 miles (3 km) from the courthouse.
"I'm in shock. I think that she knew that he was up to something," said Neema Bahrami, an event manager at the nightclub who survived the shooting while his best friend was killed.
TEARS, HUGS
Then the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history, it has since been surpassed by the Las Vegas attack in which a shooter opened fire on an outdoor concert from his hotel room last year, killing 58 people.
When U.S. District Judge Paul Byron announced the verdict, Salman broke down in tears and hugged her defense lawyers, according to reporters inside the courtroom. Her relatives gasped while families of the victims sat silently, showing little emotion.
"We knew from day one she was innocent," Salman's aunt, Susan Adieh, told reporters just after the verdict.
The jury's foreperson anonymously emailed a statement to Orlando news outlets, saying that the verdict did not mean that jurors thought Salman was unaware of Mateen's plans.
"She may not have known what day, or what location, but she knew. However, we were not tasked with deciding if she was aware of a potential attack," the foreperson said. "The charges were aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice."
Salman, who had been jailed during the trial, will move to California, where she has relatives, family spokeswoman Susan Clary said.
Mateen, 29, opened fire shortly after 2 a.m. during Latin night, shooting patrons on the dance floor and spraying bullets at others hiding in bathroom stalls. He held hostages during a standoff with police, claiming allegiance to a leader of Islamic State before he was shot dead.
Prosecutors said Salman cased possible attack sites with her husband and did nothing to stop his plans. They claimed she initially told investigators her husband acted without her knowledge but later said she knew he was watching Islamic State videos, had purchased an assault rifle, and examined three possible attack locations.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation did not record the interrogation and the defense said she was coerced into making statements.
The jury appeared to believe the defense portrayal of Salman as a battered spouse kept in the dark, said David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor and now a partner at Coral Gables, Florida-based Hinshaw & Culbertson.
"The lack of a videotaped confession had to have had an impact on the jury's acceptance of her confession ... It is clear they believed it was coerced," Weinstein said in a statement.
(Reporting by Joey Roulette in Orlando; Writing by Daniel Trotta; editing by David Gregorio and Jonathan Oatis)
TULSA, Okla. —  A prosecutor has requested that four former Oklahoma high school football players be sentenced as adults if they are convicted on rape charges.
The Bixby High School students are accused in an attack on a 16-year-old boy with a pool cue last summer. The boys are charged as youthful offenders with second-degree rape by instrumentation and have pleaded not guilty. They are all aged 17 except one who is 16.
Assistant Attorney General Matthew Adams asked the judge Tuesday to consider adult sentences, the Tulsa World reported. He's representing the state along with Rogers County District Attorney Matt Ballard and two of Ballard's assistant prosecutors.
"The state has good cause to believe that the defendants would not reasonably complete a plan of rehabilitation or the public would not be adequately protected should they be sentenced as youthful offenders, and therefore they should be sentenced in the adult system within the Department of Corrections," Adams wrote.
Defense attorney Paul DeMuro called Adams' motion "disgraceful."
"The state's allegation that it has 'good cause' to believe these kids can't be treated in the juvenile system and are a threat to public safety is totally unfounded," DeMuro said.
Defense attorneys last month requested that the students be certified as juveniles, hoping the case would be dismissed then refiled in juvenile court.
The defendants are scheduled to appear in court April 17.
___
Information from: Tulsa World, http://www.tulsaworld.com
LIVERPOOL, England —  Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero has been ruled out of Wednesday's Champions League quarter-final first leg tie against Liverpool at Anfield after failing to recover in time from a thigh injury.
The Argentine is City's all-time top scorer having notched 199 goals in all competitions for the club.
"He has stayed in Manchester, he didn't come," City manager Pep Guardiola told a news conference ahead of training on Tuesday.
"He's been injured for the last two weeks and he still isn't fit," added the Spanish manager, who was unable to say if Aguero will be fit for Saturday's Premier League derby clash with Manchester United at the Etihad Stadium.
Aguero's absence means a likely start for Brazilian Gabriel Jesus in attack.
There was some good news on the injury front for City with left back Fabian Delph, who has been out since February, fit again and in contention for a place in the starting lineup.
(Reporting by Simon Evans; Editing by Toby Davis)
UNITED NATIONS —  U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley warned Wednesday that the U.N.'s failure to hold Syria accountable for its use of chemical weapons because of Russia's opposition has made the world "a far more dangerous place."
She told the Security Council that its lack of action on Syria has led others to take notice, pointing to the use of nerve agents against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's half-brother in Malaysia and the poisoning of a former spy and his daughter in England.
"This reveals a dangerous trend," she said, urging a renewed commitment by the Security Council to end the use of chemical weapons in Syria and elsewhere in the world.
The council met on the first anniversary of a chemical attack using sarin nerve gas on the Syrian rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhoun that killed about 100 people.
In a joint statement marking Wednesday's anniversary, the U.S., Britain, France and Germany criticized Russia for vetoing the extension of the expert body from the U.N. and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons that blamed the Syrian government for four chemical weapons attacks including Khan Sheikhoun.
The four countries condemned the use of chemical weapons anywhere and vowed to ensure that those responsible are held accountable.
Haley brought Syrian Dr. Mamoun Morad to the council meeting, saying he was one of the only doctors on duty in Khan Sheikhoun on April 4, 2017.
She quoted his words on the attack: "It was like Judgment Day, the Apocalypse. You just can't even describe the scene, can't even begin to scratch the surface of explaining what happened. We didn't have any protective equipment for gas."
Haley called the doctor, who treated victims of many other attacks in Khan Sheikhoun as well, "a hero."
She accused President Bashar Assad's regime of still using chemical weapons "practically every other week," including "credible reports of chlorine gas attacks" in the Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta which the government seized recently.
Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia urged the council to accept Moscow's proposal for a replacement for the U.N.-OPCW expert body to assess responsibility for Syria chemical attacks. But the U.S., Britain, France and others oppose it because it would require Security Council approval of the experts' determination, effectively giving Russia veto power over its decisions.
Nebenzia said Russia condemns any use of chemical weapons, "however real ones, not imagined ones."
"At the same time as some are running after phantoms of chemical weapons in Damascus, in the region dangerous chemical weapons terrorism potential continues to be masked," he warned without elaborating.
Nebenzia then called for an open Security Council meeting Thursday afternoon on the poisoning of the ex-spy and his daughter in the English town of Salisbury. He said Russia was guided in seeking the meeting by the principle it shares that any chemical weapons use "is not acceptable and must be investigated and perpetrators punished, and that impunity is unacceptable."
Britain's U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce had earlier told the council "there should be no more victims of chemical weapons attacks, whether they take place in the war zone of Syria or in an English country town."
She accused Russia of calling a meeting of the OPCW on the Salisbury attack in The Hague, Netherlands, on Wednesday "to pre-empt the findings of the OPCW investigation" of the nerve agent used on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter. She noted that a Foreign Ministry official in Moscow has already rejected the idea that Russia would accept the OPCW's conclusions.
Pierce also criticized Syria for failing to answer 21 serious issues about "gaps, inconsistencies, and discrepancies" in its chemical weapons declaration to the OPCW.
Thomas Markham, the U.N.'s deputy disarmament chief, told the council that discussions between the OPCW and the Syrian government haven't resolved any of these issues.
"Resolving these outstanding issues will permit shared confidence in Syria's declaration, within the international community," he said.
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan —  Villagers in a Taliban-controlled area of Afghanistan's Kunduz province buried dozens of dead on Tuesday, a day after an air strike they said hit a religious gathering but which the government said targeted a meeting of insurgent leaders.
Amid conflicting reports of casualty numbers, government officials admitted that a number of civilians had been killed in the strike by Afghan air force helicopters on a village in Dasht-i Archi district where a suspected meeting of Taliban fighters was taking place.
"The Afghan National Army, based on precise information, tried to destroy it to save the people from great disaster but there are reports that unfortunately civilian casualties were also caused in the attack," President Ashraf Ghani's office said in a statement.
The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) said in a tweet its investigators were in the area looking into "disturbing reports of serious harm" to civilians.
The incident is the latest in a series that have underlined the risks from the increased use of air power under a new U.S. strategy announced last year to try to force the Taliban to the negotiating table.
Local villagers said the air force had bombed a ceremony called Dastaar Bandi which celebrates young men completing the memorisation of the Koran, killing dozens of people.
Sayed Jaan, a resident of Dasht-i Archi, said he had attended two funerals for a total of almost 40 people.
"There were two mass graves to bury the victims of the bombing and I took part in both burials. In one grave, 16, and in another, 21. Many were young children," Sayed Jaan said.
"There were other burials and people were digging graves."
Defence Ministry spokesman Mohammad Radmanish told a news conference in Kabul that aerial footage and images showed Taliban gathered in a compound with vehicles and motorbikes, carrying Taliban and Pakistani flags. Half of the victims had suffered gunshot wounds inflicted by the Taliban, he said.
A senior Afghan defence ministry official said the attack killed at least 35 Taliban and wounded many more. Government officials circulated a list of 13 names they said were of Taliban commanders killed in the strike.
CHILDREN KILLED
The Taliban, which said on Monday that the strike had killed 150 religious scholars and civilians, repeated a denial that any of their forces had been present.
"The people of Kunduz have witnessed an attack on a religious school during a meeting which had nothing to do with the mujahedin and the majority of the martyrs are children," it said in a statement responding to Radmanish's news conference.
A video posted online by the movement showed at least four bodies of children, wrapped in white shrouds. Other images circulated of children and adults being treated in hospital for injuries, but they could not be verified.
Kunduz, which the Taliban briefly seized in 2015, was the scene of one of the most serious civilian casualty incidents in the conflict, when U.S. air strikes destroyed a hospital, killing 42 people, most of them patients and medical staff.
The city has been considered relatively secure over the past year or two but it remains vulnerable and the Taliban control much of the surrounding province, bordering Tajikistan in the far north of the country.
Building up the fledgling government air force has been a priority for the NATO-led Resolute Support training and advisory mission.
Last year, more than 10,000 civilians died or were wounded in the war between Afghanistan's Western-backed government and the militants, down 9 percent from the previous year, UNAMA said in a report in February.
(Reporting by Sardar Razmal in Kunduz; Additional reporting by Hamid Shalizi in KABUL; Writing by Rod Nickel and James Mackenzie; Editing by Robert Birsel and David Stamp)
BERLIN —  Nearly two dozen people were injured, two of them seriously, when two underground trains collided in the western German city of Duisburg on Tuesday, local police said.
A police official told Reuters the two trains had run into each other in a tunnel, but that the cause remained under investigation. He said 20 people had sustained minor injuries.
A transit official said the accident occurred around 1520 CET (1320 GMT) under the Ruhr river.
Local newspapers and television stations said more than 30 people had been injured in the accident.
Buses were dispatched to ferry passengers and to help keep rush-hour traffic running, the transit agency spokesman said.
Germany remains on high alert for possible militant attacks after 12 people were killed in a truck attack on a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016.
(Reporting by Andrea Shalal, Charley-Kai John and Tom Kaeckenhoff; Editing by Gareth Jones)
WASHINGTON — President Trump, having this week signaled a possible withdrawal of American troops from Syria, has ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts there while the administration reassesses its role in the conflict, administration officials said Friday.
The freeze on stabilization and humanitarian aid came as two members of the United States-led coalition fighting in Syria were killed — one American soldier and one British — and five others were wounded by a bomb in a late-night attack, the military said on Friday.
The attack took place near Manbij in northern Syria, and is believed to have been carried out by remnants of the Islamic State fighting force, a senior American military official said.
A statement posted by the United States Central Command, which directs American forces in the region, said “an improvised explosive device” detonated about 11 p.m. local time on Thursday.
The statement did not reveal the identities of the service members involved, how seriously the survivors were hurt or where in Syria the attack occurred. The American-led coalition includes about 30 countries, but only a few have forces on the ground.
“The names of the deceased will be released at the discretion of the pertinent national authorities,” the statement said. “Details pertaining to the incident are being withheld pending further investigation.”
A statement released on Friday by the Ministry of Defense in London confirmed that the second soldier killed in the blast was British, and that the mission was to counter fighters with the Islamic State.
Coalition forces have been deployed to Syria to fight, alongside Kurdish militia allies, against the Islamic State. But with that group largely routed, the seven-year civil war in Syria has entered a dangerous new phase.
Two American allies, Turkey and the Kurds, who control parts of northern Syria, are fighting each other. And the Kurds and coalition forces are engaged in a tense standoff with the Syrian government, along with its allies — Russia, Iran and Iranian-backed militias.
On Thursday, President Trump suggested that the United States could pull its approximately 2,000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” The comments surprised Defense Department officials who have maintained that some kind of American presence in parts of Syria may be necessary to avoid recreating the conditions that led to the rise of the Islamic State — and also to avoid ceding influence in the country to Russia.
“Very soon, we’re coming out,” Mr. Trump said during a rally in Ohio. “We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate, as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly, quickly.”
The suspension of funds for recovery efforts in Syria comes as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict there, a State Department official said on Friday. The freeze on funding was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
“There will be meetings on this next week,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a policy review was continuing. “Obviously, we, State, hope that this decision is reversed.”
A National Security Council official explained the White House’s position: “In line with the president’s guidance, the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized, which they do on an ongoing basis.”
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had committed the aid in February in Kuwait at a meeting of countries who have joined together to defeat the Islamic State.
Pentagon officials in the past few months have said repeatedly that a complete withdrawal of American troops could leave a void. On Tuesday, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground,” they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria,” he said.
It was unclear how the death of the American service member in the newest attack would influence Mr. Trump’s thinking on a possible American withdrawal. Beyond that, the Islamic State remains in the eastern half of Syria, and Defense Department officials caution that suggestions the group has been completely routed understates the Islamic State presence in Syria.
As if to demonstrate the complexity of the situation in Syria, President Emmanuel Macron of France sought on Thursday to position his country as a bridge between the Kurdish fighters and Turkey by serving as a mediator in talks — an effort that was rejected by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.
Mr. Macron told a delegation of that included a number of Syrian Kurds that France “honored the sacrifices and the determining role” played by Kurdish fighters in the battle against the Islamic State, which has largely been driven out of Syria, and he expressed concern about Afrin, the northern enclave where Turkey recently pushed out the Kurds.
He stopped short, however, at least in his public statements, from offering to back the Kurds militarily. It was a similar balancing act as the one taken in February by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who when asked about Turkey’s incursion in northern Syria said that France had already warned that it was “not acceptable to add war to war” in Syria.
Mr. Erdogan ridiculed his French counterpart on Friday, saying that he met with Mr. Macron last week and that the French leader was saying “weird things” that required Mr. Erdogan to say, “tough.”
“We don’t need a negotiator,” Mr. Erdogan said. “Since when has Turkey had an issue of sitting down at a table with terror groups? Where did you get this? You can sit down with terror groups, but Turkey fights against terror as it did in Afrin. You keep going on like this. Who do you think you are that you can utter the word negotiating between Turkey and terror groups?”
MOUNT VERNON, Mo. —  A Missouri ranch for troubled boys isn't liable in the 2013 murders of a Michigan couple by two teenagers who had run away from the facility, a jury decided in a lawsuit filed by the couple's children.
The family of Paul and Margaret Brooks, of Baldwin, Michigan, sued Lives Under Construction, a Christian juvenile rehabilitation center near Lampe, after Anthony Zarro and Christopher Allen broke into their winter home in Stone County, Missouri, and stabbed the couple to death.
The family contended that the ranch didn't adequately supervise the juveniles in its care, didn't alert the authorities or nearby residents that the teens had escaped two days before the attack, and improperly took Zarro and Allen off of needed psychiatric medication without consulting a doctor.
A Lawrence County jury found for the ranch Monday after a two-week trial that revealed that Sue Brooks apparently was forced to watch her husband's death before she was repeatedly stabbed, The Springfield News-Leader reported .
Zarro and Allen were 16 and 15, respectively, at the time of the attack. They both pleaded guilty to murder and are serving life sentences.
John Schultz, a lawyer for Lives Under Construction, said in his closing arguments that the ranch was not directly responsible for the actions of two boys, who were high and drunk at the time of the murders. He said the ranch had helped hundreds of boys with a program that takes them off of psychiatric medicine and emphasizes hard work and Christian faith.
The lawyer for the Brooks family, Randy Cowherd, argued that the ranch was not equipped to handle Allen and Zarro, who he said had severe mental health issues and should not have been taken off their medication. He said the ranch was repeatedly told by the state not to take boys at the ranch off their medications without a trained psychologist or psychiatrist monitoring them. Using an exemption for religious facilities, Liver Under Construction voluntarily surrendered its state license a few years ago.
The Brooks family was seeking between $7.6 million and $21 million. Seven board members for the ranch previously settled with the Brooks family for a combined total of $2.85 million.
Lives Under Construction faces three more lawsuits that claim that boys sexually abused each other for years and the ranch covered it up. The ranch denies those allegations.
___
Information from: Springfield News-Leader, http://www.news-leader.com
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia —  The Latest on the fallout from the Russian ex-spy poisoning (all times local):
4:10 a.m.
Australia says Russia is expelling two of its diplomats and is calling Moscow's action "disappointing."
The expulsions by Moscow are in reaction to Australia's expulsions of two Russian diplomats who the government says were undeclared intelligence officers. Australia says it acted in concert with 28 other nations expelling a total of 153 Russian diplomats in an unprecedented demonstration of global solidarity with Britain over the nerve agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal. Moscow denies involvement.
A joint statement by Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop says there's no justification for Moscow's expulsions.
It adds that the Russian government must explain how a military-grade nerve agent developed by Russia was used in Britain and why it has not been declared to the Organization for Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
___
11:29 p.m.
Romania's foreign minister says Russia has "a very solid presence" of spies in Romania, in unusually outspoken remarks about alleged Russian espionage.
Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu said Friday: "I don't know in figures, but we can feel a very solid presence" of Russian spies.
It was the first direct comment of late made by a high-level Romanian official on the topic.
Relations between Romania and Russia, which are generally cool, strained further this week after Romania expelled one Russian diplomat over the nerve agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal. Russia responded in kind.
Russia's ambassador to Romania Valery Kuzmin called the expulsion of Russian diplomats "the manifestation of collective political madness," but Melescanu responded Friday that "the madness was the attack in Salisbury."
Melescanu headed Romania's foreign espionage agency from 2012 to 2014.
___
10:30 p.m.
Russia's Foreign Ministry says a plane belonging to the state airline Aeroflot is being searched by police at a London airport.
Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova says Friday said British authorities did not state a reason for the search, which she called "the latest provocation."
Tensions between London and Moscow are high amid the dispute over the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian double agent and his daughter. Britain blames Russia for the poisoning.
Each country has expelled 23 of the other's diplomats. Russia further escalated its response on Friday, ordering Britain to reduce the number of its diplomats in Moscow to the level that Russia has in London. That number wasn't immediately clear.
Zakharova did not specify the London airport where the search was taking place, but a Heathrow-to-Moscow flight online had its expected arrival delayed by about three hours.
___
6:10 p.m.
Russia's Foreign Ministry has accused U.S. intelligence services of trying to recruit Russian diplomats expelled by the U.S. amid a diplomatic conflict over the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain.
The ministry said Friday it saw a "sharp increase in provocative actions against Russian diplomats" following the U.S. decision earlier this week to order out 60 Russian diplomats.
It said American intelligence services have engaged in "frantic efforts" to make cooperation offers to the expelled diplomats. The ministry described the alleged U.S. overtures as "cynical and disgusting," adding that they have failed.
Two dozen countries ordered more than 150 Russian diplomats out in a show of solidarity with Britain over the nerve agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal. Moscow denies involvement and has responded in kind.
___
6:50 p.m.
German Foreign Minister Heiko Mass says his country remains "ready for dialogue" with Russia — but is underlining that expelling four Russian diplomats was the right thing to do.
Maas says Friday that Russia had expelled four German embassy staff in retaliation. He said the tit-for-tat move was "not surprising."  He says "we did not take the decision on expelling the Russian diplomats lightly."
The minister says Germany's reaction to the poisoning of a former Russian intelligence officer in London "was a necessary and appropriate political signal, out of solidarity with Great Britain and because Russian has refused any clarification of the matter."
Maas said, nonetheless, Germany was ready to "work for a constructive future between our countries."
___
6:25 p.m.
Russia's Foreign Ministry says it has informed ambassadors of most of the countries that ordered expulsion of Russian diplomats that an equal number of their diplomats have been declared persona non grata.
A ministry statement Friday said the ambassadors were from 23 of the countries that are expelling Russians in connection with the poisoning in Britain of a former Russian double agent and his daughter. Russia on Thursday announced it was expelling 60 US diplomats and closing the consulate in St. Petersburg in retaliation for Washington's moves.
The countries informed Friday of expulsions were Australia, Albania, Germany, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Canada, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Ukraine, Finland, France, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Estonia.
It said it Russia would consider mirror expulsions of diplomats from Belgium, Hungary, Georgia and Montenegro.
The statement did not mention NATO, which is expelling seven Russians.
___
4:40 p.m.
Amid a Russia-West diplomatic dispute, envoys at the U.S. Consulate in St. Petersburg have paused for some pizza.
A van delivered more than 20 pizzas Friday to the consulate, which Moscow ordered to shut down amid the escalating diplomatic war between Russia and the West. The closure of the consulate in Russia's second-largest city mirrors the U.S. move to shut the Russian consulate in Seattle.
Two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many EU nations, and NATO ordered more than 150 Russian diplomats out this week in a show of solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter that London blamed on Russia. Moscow has vehemently denied involvement in the nerve agent attack and announced the expulsion of the same number of diplomats from each nation.
___
4:10 p.m.
Bulgaria's prime minister says his country won't expel Russian diplomats as a response to the nerve agent attack on an ex-spy in Britain.
Boyko Borissov has said after a meeting of the government security council that his government was looking forward to more proof about the attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.
The government has decided that Bulgaria should limit itself for now to full support for Britain which has already been stated at the European Council and by recalling its ambassador from Moscow for consultations.
Borissov said that Bulgaria, which currently holds the rotating European Union presidency, should keep open communication channels with Russia.
Bulgaria, once Moscow's closest ally, is still heavily dependent on Russian gas supplies, on spare parts for its Soviet-era military equipment and on sizeable revenues from the tourism industry.
___
3:40 p.m.
British officials say the Russian order to reduce Britain's diplomatic presence in Moscow is "regrettable" but had been anticipated.
Russia's Foreign Ministry says it has ordered Britain to reduce the number of its diplomats in Moscow to the level that Russia has in London.
A Foreign Office statement released Friday said the Russian action "doesn't change the facts" of the nerve-agent attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter.
It says there is no alternative to the conclusion that the Russian state was to blame for the attempted "assassination of two people on British soil."
The Foreign Office says Russia is "in flagrant breach of international law and the Chemical Weapons Convention."
Officials refuse to discuss how many diplomats might have to be removed to comply with the Russian order.
___
3:05 p.m.
The Russian Foreign Ministry says it has ordered Britain to reduce the number of its diplomats in Moscow to the level that Russia has in London, firing another salvo in a diplomatic war over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain.
The ministry said it summoned the British ambassador Friday to hand him a protest over the "provocative and unsubstantiated actions by Britain, which instigated the expulsion of Russian diplomats from various nations for no reason." It said Friday that London has a month to reduce its diplomatic personnel to the same number of diplomats that Russia has in Britain.
That number wasn't immediately clear.
Two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many EU nations, and NATO have ordered out more than 150 Russian diplomats this week in a show of solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter that London blamed on Russia. Moscow has denied involvement and announced Thursday that it would expel the same number of diplomats from each nation.
___
2 p.m.
The Russian Foreign Ministry says it is summoning ambassadors from the countries that expelled Russian diplomats over the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain to serve them notices about Moscow's response.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov announced Thursday that Moscow would expel the same number of diplomats from each of the nations that ordered Russian diplomats out. The Foreign Ministry said it was summoning ambassadors from those nations Friday to announce retaliatory measures.
Earlier this week, two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many EU nations, and NATO have expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats over the poisoning of ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. A hospital treating them said Thursday the woman was improving rapidly and was now in stable condition, though her father remained in critical condition.
___
1:30 p.m.
The Kremlin says it remains open to normalizing ties with the U.S. and other nations despite Moscow's quid pro quo response to their expulsion of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in Britain.
Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Moscow was forced to retaliate after the expulsion of more than 150 Russian diplomats by two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many EU nations, and NATO. Peskov said that "Russia remains open for developing good ties."
Moscow said it would expel the same number of diplomats from each country that ordered Russian diplomats out. It summoned the U.S. ambassador to announce the closure of the American consulate in St. Petersburg and the expulsion of 60 U.S. diplomats in a tit-for-tat response to Washington's moves.
___
12:35 p.m.
U.S. Consulate staff in St. Petersburg, Russia's second-largest city, are preparing to wind up operations after the Russian government ordered the consulate's closure.
Russia on Thursday announced the expulsion of more than 150 diplomats, including 60 Americans, in response to mass expulsions of Russian diplomats by Western countries over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.
Russia also ordered the closure of the U.S. consulate in St. Petersburg.
An Associated Press reporter on Friday saw consulate staff carrying boxes from the building and loading them into a van. Several mini-vans drove out of the consulate while security also detained a man who threw a paper coffee cup at the building.
ORLANDO, Fla. — The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.
The outcome was even more striking because the not-guilty verdict came from jurors in Orlando, Fla., where Omar Mateen’s rampage left 49 people dead and 53 others injured, the worst terrorist attack on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001.
Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State — a narrative countered by her family’s claims that she was kept in the dark about her husband’s secrets and was home sleeping when the attack occurred.
To blame for the government’s defeat, said defense lawyers and legal experts who closely followed the trial, was a flimsy circumstantial case that ultimately was unable to persuade jurors during the eight days of trial.
Testimony from an F.B.I. agent revealed that prosecutors knew early on, but did not reveal, that one of their crucial initial pieces of evidence — that Ms. Salman had admitted driving by the nightclub with her husband in the days before the attack — most likely did not happen.
Prosecutors also faltered when they argued that Ms. Salman had created an alibi for her husband the night of the shooting, telling Mr. Mateen’s mother that he was out to dinner with a friend identified only as Nemo. But that line was Mr. Mateen’s own lie to his wife, defense lawyers argued. They put Nemo on the stand, over prosecutors’ objections, to testify that he knew Mr. Mateen had used him in the past as a cover story to cheat on his wife.
“The more we learned, the better Noor Salman looked,” Charles D. Swift, one of her lawyers, told reporters after the verdict was announced.
The jury of seven women and five men deliberated a little more than 12 hours before acquitting Ms. Salman on charges of aiding and abetting the commission of a terrorist act and of obstructing justice. She had been accused of giving misleading statements to law enforcement officers who interviewed her after the massacre.
Late Friday, the jury foreman said in a statement to The Orlando Sentinel that the verdict did not mean jurors thought Ms. Salman was unaware of Mr. Mateen’s plans.
“On the contrary, we were convinced she did know,” the foreman told The Sentinel, asking to remain anonymous and saying he was speaking on his own behalf. “She may not have known what day, or what location, but she knew. However, we were not tasked with deciding if she was aware of a potential attack. The charges were aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice.”
And on those charges, he said, the jury was presented with “no option” but to acquit.
In federal court, where terrorism defendants often accept guilty pleas before going to trial, prosecutors rarely lose cases. A report last year by the Center for National Security at Fordham University School of Law found that, while Islamic State-related cases are more likely to go to trial than federal cases in general, every case that was resolved between March 2014 and August 2017 resulted in a conviction. The national average conviction rate is 92.5 percent, according to the report.
But prosecutors generally have been cautious about filing charges against possible accomplices in terrorism cases. Though an accomplice is sometimes the only one left alive to prosecute, such cases can be difficult to prove.
“Prosecutors have got a duty not to be caught up in hysteria,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when a white supremacist killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston in 2015 and successfully prosecuted a man who had withheld information about that attack.
He said prosecutors must guard against allowing public emotion to influence their decisions.
“The federal government should never lose a case,” Mr. Nettles said. “Prosecutors should never lose. They pick the fight, they pick the day the fight happens, they’ve got the best investigative capabilities in the world. It should always be an embarrassment for the government to lose.”
After the verdict, two of Ms. Salman’s defense lawyers, Charles D. Swift and Linda Moreno, said in an interview that prosecutors had offered their client a plea deal in the weeks leading up to the trial but she had refused to accept it, insisting on her innocence.
The 31-year-old defendant wiped tears from her eyes after the verdict on the first charge was read. By the time the judge’s clerk finished, Ms. Salman openly sobbed, hugging her lawyers and burying her face in their arms. They, too, wept. She later left the courthouse with Fritz Scheller, another one of her lawyers.
A spokeswoman for the Salman family said Ms. Salman plans to return to California, where she had been living before her arrest in January 2017, to be with her 5-year-old son. She had faced a sentence of up to life in prison if convicted.
“I don’t know how she’s going to make up for two years,” said Al Salman, one of her uncles, who sat two rows behind his niece during the trial. He said he intends to hire a therapist to help Ms. Salman rebuild her life.
Families of the Pulse victims sat in stone-faced silence as the verdict was announced. They walked out of the federal courthouse in downtown Orlando as a group, some of them wearing dark sunglasses, without saying a word.
After news of the verdict spread, a small group gathered outside Pulse, which has remained shuttered since the shooting, holding signs declaring, “We will not let hate win.”
“Those of us directly affected by this tragedy must find peace in our hearts and remember that he was the one who pulled the trigger that night,” Barbara Poma, the nightclub owner and founder of a foundation for the victims, said in a statement, referring to Mr. Mateen. “This verdict cannot and will not divide us.”
The prosecutors, James D. Mandolfo and Sara C. Sweeney, declined to comment, other than to thank jurors for their work and say they respected their decision.
From the start, Ms. Salman had insisted she had nothing to do with her husband’s rampage. The prosecution built a convincing case that Mr. Mateen methodically made arrangements for the attack, apparently inspired by the Islamic State propaganda he obsessively consumed online — including a video he watched weeks before the shooting urging bloodshed against Americans during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
The burden on prosecutors after that was high: They had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Ms. Salman knowingly and willfully helped or tried to help Mr. Mateen commit an act that would provide material support to the Islamic State. Merely being his wife or unwittingly assisting her husband was not enough, said Joshua L. Dratel, a New York lawyer experienced in defending terrorism cases.
“You have to share the intent of the actor,” Mr. Dratel said. “You have to do something to make the crime succeed — not do something that makes the crime succeed without knowing that the crime is going to occur. You have to have both of those elements.”
Prosecutors did not have to prove a motive, though Ms. Sweeney, an assistant United States attorney, said in her closing argument on Wednesday that Ms. Salman could have aided Mr. Mateen out of love, money or spite. But while Mr. Mateen’s internet browsing and social media records showed intense radicalization, there was no similar history for Ms. Salman. In fact, twice on Facebook she criticized Islamic terrorists, at one point calling them bad Muslims.
“In today’s world, to have a case like that where you have access to all the social media, you have access to the phones, you have access to the computers — all of that, and you don’t have a specific piece of evidence pointing to her intent? You don’t have a case,” Mr. Dratel said.
In her supposed confession, Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had scouted Pulse as a target for the June 12, 2016, attack, yet investigators apparently knew just days later that there was no evidence to corroborate that. That false statement in her confession called into question the rest of what she told law enforcement over more than 11 hours of questioning without a lawyer present. The F.B.I. made no audio or video recordings of the interview. The jury foreman told The Sentinel that he wished a recording had been available.
“Twenty years ago, not everybody who you ran into had a digital recorder in their pocket, and we didn’t have ‘CSI’ shows, and we didn’t expect to have everything on tape for us to see,” said David S. Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor in Miami who is now a defense lawyer. “But that’s what we expect now. If there isn’t a picture, it didn’t happen. So the fact that they didn’t record the confession helped to raise this reasonable doubt as to what was being said.”
The final coup for the defense came during the prosecution’s closing argument, when Ms. Sweeney for the first time suggested that the reason Ms. Salman told F.B.I. agents that she and Mr. Mateen had driven by Pulse was because she incorrectly thought the nightclub was at the Disney Springs shopping and entertainment complex, formerly known as Downtown Disney, which the couple did visit.
Offering an especially chilling detail, Ms. Sweeney suggested that Mr. Mateen bought a baby carriage and doll at a Walmart the night before the massacre so that he could conceal his AR-15 assault rifle and draw no suspicion as he walked toward Disney Springs, which prosecutors believe was his original intended target.
Prosecutors had never before assigned any importance to the stroller, which Mr. Mateen bought alone, while Ms. Salman was miles away, shopping with his credit card. Mr. Swift said in an interview that it showed his client was not in the loop and her husband had intentionally kept his plot from her.
“Doesn’t it make more sense to got to the Walmart with his wife for a baby carriage?” he asked. “If she is aiding and abetting, then why isn’t she with him? If she was there, she might have questioned him: Why do we need a baby carriage? Their kid did not need a stroller.”
The defense asked for a mistrial this week after prosecutors disclosed that Mr. Mateen’s father, Seddique Mateen, had been an F.B.I. informer at various times from January 2005 to the time of the attack. He is now under criminal investigation for financial transfers to Turkey and Afghanistan he made shortly before the shooting. Defense lawyers argued that the elder Mateen’s relationship with the F.B.I. should have been disclosed early on in the case.
“Mistakes were made by everybody, but nobody would admit to them,” Mr. Swift said. “Mistakes were made by the interrogators, and by the original people who looked at Mateen, and the prosecution. At every level.”
“Salman was a solution to all their mistakes,” he added. “But the jury didn’t buy it.”
BENGHAZI, Libya —  Islamic State claimed responsibility on Friday for a suicide car bombing this week in the eastern Libyan town of Ajdabiya, the militant group's news agency Amaq said on Friday.
The explosion struck a checkpoint on Thursday at the eastern exit of Ajdabiya, a town south of Benghazi, a military source said. It is close to the oil export ports of Brega and Zueitina.
Amaq said 14 troops of General Khalifa Haftar had been killed of wounded. His forces allied to a parallel government based in the east control Ajdabiya and much of eastern Libya.
According to medics, six people were killed and nine wounded.
Islamic State, which lost in 2016 its stronghold Sirte in central Libya, had in October claimed an attack about 60 km (37 miles) south of Ajdabiya during which two soldiers were killed.
The group has retreated since the fall of Sirte to camps in the desert in southern Libya from where it has launched suicide bombings and attacks in coastal towns.
(Reporting by Ahmed Tolba and Ayman al-Warfalli; Writing by Ulf Laessing; Editing by Edmund Blair)
LONDON — British officials investigating the poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian double agent, believe it is likely that an assassin smeared a nerve agent on the door handle at his home. This operation is seen as so risky and sensitive that it is unlikely to have been undertaken without approval from the Kremlin, according to officials who have been briefed on the early findings of the inquiry.
This theory suggests that an assassin, who Britain believes was working on behalf of the Russian government, walked up to the door of Mr. Skripal’s brick home on a quiet street in Salisbury on March 4, the day that he and his daughter, Yulia, were sickened.
Mr. Skripal, who was freed in a spy swap with the United States in 2010, is still in critical condition and unresponsive, but Yulia is conscious and talking, according to a BBC report.
Because the nerve agent is so potent, the officials said, the task could have been carried out only by trained professionals familiar with chemical weapons. British and American officials are skeptical that independent actors could have carried out such a risky operation or obtained the agent without approval at the highest levels of the Russian government — almost exactly the same phrase that American intelligence agencies used in October 2016, when they first attributed the hacking of emails from the Democratic National Committee to a team of Russian hackers.
Four weeks after the assassination attempt, British and American officials are turning to the question of whether President Vladimir V. Putin himself was aware of, or ordered, the attack.
They say there is no evidence so far of his direct participation, but the Russian president, a former K.G.B. officer, is skilled at hiding his communications.
Russia has denied involvement in the poisoning, and in the election hack.
British and American officials say they are struck by the symbolism of the attack on Mr. Skripal, as well as its effectiveness. There were many ways the former spy could have been killed: He could have been shot, or killed in a staged accident.
But the assassins knew the nerve agent would be identified, and knew it would be linked to Russia, the officials said. That was meant to send a chilling message to others who would think of defecting to, or informing, the West.
And by conducting the operation in an historical British town, some distance from London, the attack was meant to indicate that no place was out of reach of Russian assassins, the officials said.
The boldness of the attack on Mr. Skripal, which took British authorities by surprise, has caused them to reassess Mr. Putin’s use of what has come to be called “hybrid warfare.”
The officials are now viewing those actions as part of a pattern — one rarely seen in the Cold War — in which Mr. Putin exerts Russian power in ways that are hard to attribute directly to Russian actors, but leave little doubt in the minds of adversaries about the country’s willingness to use a range of new tactics.
NATO allies are now thinking anew about coordinated responses, which is what the simultaneous ouster of the Russian agents was intended to represent. But it is unclear whether those countries can hold together in a continuous series of confrontations with Russia.
Eight days after the Skripals collapsed, Prime Minister Theresa May identified the poison as Novichok, developed in the last years of the Soviet Union.
For an assassin to leave poison on Mr. Skripal’s door handle would require considerable knowledge of the underlying chemistry, said Richard Guthrie, an independent chemical weapons expert and editor of CBW Events.
The nerve agent would have to be designed so that it would remain on the door handle, and then reliably be transferred to the target’s hand, he said.
“It’s a huge implication, if it was the door handle, because it means someone had to be in the U.K. with the material,” Mr. Guthrie said. “Anything you create that would stick to the door handle, you’ve got to make it so that it would be removed from the door handle when it was handled, and not dropped off too quickly. That’s complicated chemistry.”
The assassin, he added, would have had to possess a high confidence that his target would be affected, because, he said, “you don’t want to stand in front of the front door.”
Alastair Hay, an emeritus professor of toxicology at the University of Leeds, agreed that such an attack would require specialized knowledge, to ensure the poison adhered to the door handle but felt innocuous to the targets.
“Once they touched it, they would know that this handle was wet,” Professor Hay said. “But they would not have dreamed that someone was trying to poison them. If they had, they would try to wipe it off.”
Some experts have expressed caution about assuming that Mr. Putin approved the attack. Its timing was awkward, coming too late to help him much in last month’s election, and casting a diplomatic shadow over Russia’s hosting of the 2018 World Cup.
And the Kremlin’s embrace of proxy forces in recent years has opened the door to freelancing from other power centers, like security agencies or the country’s military intelligence, which may not share their plans in detail.
In their consultation with the United States and other allies, British officials shared a three-part case against Russia, the officials said.
The first element was an analysis of the nerve agent provided by mass spectrometry, a technique that sorts ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio. If the sample is strong enough, this technique could provide scientists with a chemical signature identifying its national source or even the specific laboratory that produced it, said Paul F. Walker, a chemical weapons expert at Green Cross International, a disarmament advocacy group.
The second element was evidence that Russia had publicly stated its intent to assassinate defectors living abroad. British officials pointed to 2006 legislation passed by the Russian Parliament, which granted Russia’s president expanded powers to use force against opponents living in other countries.
Russia has never acknowledged using the authority under the law, and has denied any role in high-profile deaths, like that of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former Russian K.G.B. officer who was poisoned with a rare and highly radioactive isotope known as Polonium 210 a few months after it was passed.
A third element of the British case against Russia consisted of intelligence — either human intelligence, intercepted communications or other information — that the officials would not share.
The dispute between Russia and Britain deepened last week, after the United States and European allies expelled more than than 150 Russian diplomats suspected of being spies.
Russia’s government has said it “insists on the right” to visit Ms. Skripal, a Russian citizen. The British foreign office has said it will consider Russia’s request, taking into consideration both international law and Ms. Skripal’s wishes.
Russia also protested the search of an Aeroflot passenger jet on Friday after it traveled from Moscow to London’s Heathrow Airport, and said that the British Border Force had tried to search the plane in the absence of its crew or captain. Ben Wallace, the British security minister, said there was nothing unusual about the search.
“It is routine for Border Force to search aircraft to protect the U.K. from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country,” Mr. Wallace said.
Russia on Saturday also released a list of questions addressed to Britain, France and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the Skripal poisoning.
The questions scrutinize the British claim that the nerve agent originated in Russia, noting that an antidote was provided to the Skripals within hours of their poisoning, and questioning whether British scientists had produced Novichok nerve agents in their own laboratories.
MOSCOW —  Russia's foreign minister accused Britain and the United States of spreading "lies and disinformation" about the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England, declaring Monday that East-West tensions are worse now than during the Cold War.
Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. Britain and two dozen of its allies have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats. Moscow, which vehemently denies any involvement, has responded tit-for-tat.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov denounced the British accusations on Monday as a "mad and horrible provocation." He argued that Russia had no motive to attack Skripal, who was released in 2010 spy swap from a Russian prison where he was serving time for spying for Britain.
"If there were any gripes against the man, he wouldn't have been swapped," Lavrov said.
Russia's top diplomat also mocked Britain's claim that there was no plausible alternative explanation for the poisonings of the Skripals. British intelligence agencies could have been involved and the case helped distract public attention from the British government's difficult talks to exit the European Union, Lavrov said.
"There are other explanations besides those put forward by our Western colleagues, who declare that it can only be the Russians who are responsible," Lavrov said. "It could also be advantageous to the British government, who clearly find themselves in a difficult situation having failed to fulfill their promises to voters over Brexit."
British officials have previously rejected similar Russian allegations.
Lavrov said that Russia has called a meeting of the international chemical weapons watchdog for Wednesday to discuss the case and asked it to provide details of its cooperation with Britain in the poisoning probe.
Alexander Shulgin, the Russian representative at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said Monday in televised remarks that the organization must conduct an "open, thorough and unbiased investigation" with Russian experts' participation.
British authorities invited OPCW experts to take chemical samples from Salisbury, the English city where the father and daughter were sickened, and to analyze them. Shulgin warned that Moscow won't accept the agency's conclusions unless Russian experts are allowed to take part in the process.
Lavrov also assailed the British authorities for stonewalling Russia's request for consular access to Yulia Skripal, 33, a Russian citizen whose condition has improved since she and her father fell critically ill on March 4.
"Many say that the situation now is worse than it was during the Cold War because some rules existed and decorum was observed back then," he said.  "Now, Britain, the U.S. and a few countries blindly following them have dropped all decorum and engaged in blatant lies and disinformation."
WASHINGTON —  The largest American business lobby group came to the defense of Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday after a multi-day Twitter attack by U.S. President Donald Trump that included unsubstantiated criticism of the world's biggest online retailer.
The value of Amazon shares held by Jeff Bezos, the online retailer's chief executive and single largest shareholder, had taken a $10 billion hit in the week since Trump began attacking him and his company on Twitter.
Citing an unspecified report, Trump told reporters at the White House that the company was not paying the U.S. Postal Service a fair rate, and that it was costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars and forcing other retailers out of business, and he threatened to raise rates.
Late on Tuesday afternoon, a source familiar with proceedings at the White House said no specific actions addressing Trump's concerns about Amazon were on the table at the White House at this time, but that could change given Trump's dissatisfaction with the company.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby group in the country, stepped in on Tuesday to defend Amazon, which is a member.
"It’s inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," Neil Bradley, chief policy officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement, citing the value of the free enterprise system and the rule of law. "The record is clear: deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.”
It is not the first time Trump, or another U.S. president, has been publicly critical of a company. Trump has previously criticized automakers, Carrier Corp, which is owned by United Technologies Corp and Boeing Co.
In 2015, then-President Barack Obama criticized office supply company Staples Inc for not embracing the Affordable Care Act, drawing a quick rebuke from Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Trump has progressively escalated his criticism of Amazon and Bezos, who also privately owns The Washington Post, which has published stories that have angered the president.
Bezos, ranked by Forbes magazine as the world's richest man with an estimated net worth of $115.6 billion, owns 78.89 million Amazon shares, worth about $110 billion at Tuesday's market close.
Amazon shares closed up 1.5 percent at $1,392.05. The shares started the day higher but fell as low as $1,355.33 after Trump's latest Amazon-related tweet.
Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough tax, taking advantage of the U.S. postal system and putting small retailers out of business, but he has offered no evidence to back up his criticisms.
"The post office is losing billions of dollars ... because it delivers packages for Amazon at a very low rate," Trump told reporters on Tuesday. "If you look at the cost that we're subsidizing, we're giving a subsidy to Amazon."
Trump offered no details about the report he cited or how he might charge the company more through USPS.
Amazon also ships packages through providers such as FedEx Corp and United Parcel Service Inc as well as its own experimental shipping service.
Representatives of Amazon and USPS had no comment on Trump's tweet on Tuesday and could not be immediately reached regarding his latest comments to reporters.
(Reporting by Ginger Gibson and Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason, Makini Brice and Lisa Lambert; Writing by Susan Heavey Editing by Bill Rigby and Leslie Adler)
• Three people were injured by gunfire, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTube’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., on Tuesday afternoon.
• The San Bruno Police Department identified the attacker, who died of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s.
• President Trump has been briefed and tweeted “thoughts and prayers” to the victims.
Here is the latest information on the attack.
Chief Ed Barberini of the San Bruno Police Department said at a news conference that three victims had been transported away with gunshot wounds. He had previously indicated that there were four shooting victims; the discrepancy stemmed from the fact that at least one person was injured while fleeing the building but not shot.
The gunshot victims were taken to Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, the only Level 1 trauma center in San Francisco. Brent Andrew, a spokesman for the hospital, said at a news conference that a 36-year-old man was in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman in fair condition.
(READ MORE: Law enforcement officials were still investigating the attack at the YouTube headquarters Tuesday.)
Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube, said in a statement late Tuesday afternoon that Google was “doing everything we can to support them and their families at this time.”
The police found a woman, believed to be the attacker and later identified as Ms. Aghdam, dead in the building from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Social media postings associated with her included a video in which she criticized YouTube.
Chief Barberini said that the suspect had used a handgun, and that there was no evidence of a second attacker.
Ms. Aghdam’s gender is noteworthy because mass shootings are almost always perpetrated by men. An F.B.I. study released in 2014 found that, from 2000 to 2013, women were responsible for only six of 160 mass shootings in the United States.
When the police arrived, two minutes after receiving 911 calls, they had to wade through YouTube employees fleeing the building.
Many employees interviewed outside said they had initially thought the episode was a fire drill. Others said they ran when people started shouting that there was a shooter.
Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said in an interview that he had been sitting at his desk when the fire alarm went off, and that he grabbed his electric skateboard and headed for the back exit. As he rode down a gravel hill, he said, he heard someone shouting and saw a man lying motionless in one of the office’s outdoor dining areas.
“He had a red spot on his stomach, and he was lying on his back, not moving,” Mr. Vorhies said. “I saw the blood soak through the shirt.”
About 25 feet away from the victim, he said, a heavyset man wearing gray was shouting, “Come at me!” Mr. Vorhies thought the man was the attacker, but he did not see a gun, and said it was possible the man had actually “been taunting the shooter.”
The dining area can be reached from an adjacent parking structure without an employee badge, Mr. Vorhies said.
In a nearby parking lot to which 200 or so employees had evacuated, armed police officers waded into the crowd. The police asked for employees who had witnessed something firsthand to come forward, and about two dozen people, some visibly distraught, walked over to the officers.
Vadim Lavrusik, a YouTube employee who formerly worked for The New York Times, tweeted just before 1 p.m. that there was an “active shooter at YouTube HQ” and that he had “heard shots and saw people running while at my desk.” He said that he was barricaded in a room with co-workers, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated.
By 2:15 p.m., President Trump had been briefed on the shooting, and Cameron Rogers Polan, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Division of the F.B.I., said in an email that the agency was in contact with the San Bruno police. The San Francisco division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives tweeted that it, too, was responding to the attack.
Rattled by a mass shooting in their midst, several Silicon Valley giants tweeted their concern — and acknowledged the role their own platforms had played in spreading false information during this and other violence.
“We’re also aware of the misinformation being spread on Twitter,” Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, tweeted. “We’re tracking, learning, and taking action.”
ANKARA, Turkey —  Ties between Russia and Turkey are growing closer than ever, as Russia runs into widespread diplomatic fallout from the poisoned spy scandal and Turkey's relations with its Western allies worsens over human rights issues and its military operations against Kurdish militia in Syria.
Russian President Vladimir Putin heads back to Turkey on Tuesday, joining Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at a symbolic ground-breaking ceremony for a Russian-made nuclear power plant being built on Turkey's Mediterranean coast at Akkuyu. On Wednesday, Putin, Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are expected to hold a summit in the Turkish capital of Ankara to discuss Syria's future.
Turkey and Russia have put aside their traditional rivalries and differences on regional issues to forge strong economic ties. In December, they finalized an agreement for Turkey to purchase Russia's long-range S-400 missile defense system, a deal that raised eyebrows among some of Turkey's NATO allies. Aside from the power plant, the two countries are also building the "Turkstream" pipeline to transport Russian gas to Turkey.
"Turkish-Russian relations are in a better mood compared with two years before . both parties are working together," said Mitat Celikpala, a professor of international relations at Istanbul's Kadir Has University.
"They managed to compartmentalize issues," Celikpala said, citing Turkish and Russian divisions, including over the divided island of Cyprus and Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea. "If you set aside all those issues . they are good partners for the resolution of immediate interests."
Their warming relations come as ties between European Union nations and Turkey have become increasingly testy.
Turkey's EU membership talks have stalled and many EU countries have voiced concerns over the Turkish government's growing authoritarian turn and its crackdown on rights and freedoms, especially following an attempted coup in 2016 that Turkey blames on a U.S.-based Islamic cleric.
Turkey in turn, accuses EU countries of supporting Kurdish rebels as well as the alleged perpetrators of the 2016 failed coup.
Turkey's relations with the United States have fared even worse, with Turkey accusing Washington of harboring the cleric, Fethullah Gulen, and backing Syrian Kurdish militia that Turkey considers to be terrorists.
Last week, Turkey announced it would not be following NATO and EU allies in ousting Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning in Britain of a former Russian spy. Britain has accused Russia of being behind the nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, prompting nearly two dozen nations to expel over 150 Russian diplomats. Russia has responded by expelling a similar number of envoys.
Turkey condemned the nerve agent attack on British soil without naming Russia, adding that it enjoyed "positive" relations with Moscow.
"Just because some countries took a step based on an allegation, we don't have to take the same step," Erdogan said.
Putin and Erdogan have met several times in the past year and regularly speak on the phone.
Russia and Turkey — along with Iran — are also working together to create "de-escalation zones" to reduce the fighting in Syria and bring the sides of the conflict together to negotiate Syria's future.
The cooperation comes despite their positions on opposing sides in the Syrian conflict —with Moscow siding with Syrian President Bashar Assad and Turkey supporting his foes since the start of the Syrian war seven years ago.
The conflicting interests led to the downing of a Russian warplane by a Turkish jet at the Syrian border in November 2015, which put the two nations on the verge of a direct military conflict.
Russia responded by barring packaged tourist tours to Turkey and halting the imports of agricultural products. The two reconciled after Erdogan issued an apology.
__
Wieting reported from Istanbul.
LONDON —  The head of Britain's military research center said on Tuesday it was unable yet to say whether the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned a Russian double-agent last month had been produced in Russia.
"We were able to identify it as Novichok, to identify that it was military-grade nerve agent," Gary Aitkenhead, chief executive of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down in England, told Sky News.
"We have not identified the precise source, but we have provided the scientific info to government who have then used a number of other sources to piece together the conclusions you have come to."
However, he confirmed the substance required "extremely sophisticated methods to create, something only in the capabilities of a state actor".
He added: "we are continuing to work to help to provide additional information that might help us get closer to [the source] but we haven't yet been able to do that."
Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.
After the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, Britain blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin for the attempted murder, and the West has expelled around 130 Russian diplomats.
Armin Laschet, a conservative ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said the comment raised questions about Britain's drive to persuade allies to expel Russian diplomats.
"If one forces nearly all NATO countries into solidarity, shouldn't one have certain evidence? Regardless of what one thinks about Russia, my study of international law taught me a different way to deal with other states," Laschet, premier of the state of North Rhine-Westphlia, said on Twitter.
Aitkenhead said the British government had "other inputs" it could use to determine the origin of the nerve agent, some of them intelligence-based.
He reiterated that the substance could not have come from Porton Down.
Russia's EU ambassador Vladimir Chizhov noted in an interview with the BBC last month that the British research lab is only eight miles (11 km) from Salisbury, insinuating that may have been the source.
A government spokesperson said on Tuesday: "We have been clear from the very beginning that our world leading experts at Porton Down identified the substance used in Salisbury as a Novichok, a military grade nerve agent.
"This is only one part of the intelligence picture. As the Prime Minister (Theresa May) has set out ... this includes our knowledge that within the last decade, Russia has investigated ways of delivering nerve agents probably for assassination – and as part of this program has produced and stockpiled small quantities of Novichoks; Russia’s record of conducting state-sponsored assassinations; and our assessment that Russia views former intelligence officers as targets."
Skripal's daughter Yulia is getting better after spending three weeks in critical condition due to the nerve toxin attack at her father's home in Salisbury, the hospital where she is being treated said last Thursday.
Her father remained in a critical but stable condition.
(Reporting by Andy Bruce; editing by Stephen Addison and Richard Balmforth)
